&gt; The estimation poker worked out quite well for the team I worked with in my previous job. Depends. In good teams it works. In teams where there's a few old farts who overshadow the younger devs it often doesn't. The old farts basically shout the loudest and end up forcing the estimate down to what they think it should be and the more junior dev then just has to handle an estimate he can't reach. 
&gt; I think a lot of people are holding quite a bit of disillusionment here. Java's claim to fame, and a reason a lot of people pick it and still pick it, is cross-platform ability Not really. There's tons of languages that are cross platform. The main reason it's popular in the projects we're in ('we' are a small consulting firm specialized in Java/JVM stuff) is that it's a very mature language but with a huge community of both open source and commercial offerings behind it. Pretty much anything you'll ever need for a Java project is available. It being cross platform is nice but the stuff we're building in our project will probably only ever run on Linux.
Before you understand docker, you need the concept of a "container". And before we do that, you need to understand the concept of namespaces. Let's take an example from Windows. On Windows, when you refer to "\foo\bar", you are referring to the "current" drive letter. You can have two different drives C: and D: each with its own "\foo\bar". You can simply set the context once in the shell by typing "D:", then all further references to "\foo\bar" will implicitly be understood by the O/S "D:\foo\bar". You can have two identical file system name spaces, just differing in a drive letter, that is derived from the context. What if you could do this with every kind of resource, not just files: process ids, user database, network ports etc? That's what the linux container concept gives you. Once you "enter" a specific container, it is as if you have a private linux box with its own "/bin", root admin user, process name space and so on. But note that there is only one O/S running ... by providing multiple isolated name spaces, it gives you the illusion of multiple environments. There is practically no runtime overhead from the container. If there are two containers each with 20 processes, it is as if the O/S is running 40 processes at native speed. But compared to the Windows example, we can do better. Does each container really need its own copy of "/bin" or anything that is not going to be overwritten? Not really. So the linux container system contains a copy-on-write file system to eliminate duplication. Docker is built on this core container functionality. It is a packaging scheme that configures a container to host a single application; that application can in turn spawn any number of processes internal to the container. Docker configures the container with all the resources needed to support that application at runtime. For example, you could package up a java web server, and use docker to package all .jar files, .jsp pages, a postgres database with its own files, and so on. The application is in essence a gateway to the world outside the container. The container virtualizes all names. But remember that there is only one actual O/S running. This is in contrast to the world of VMs like Xen and KVM. Hear James Bottomley's talk on the difference between containers and VMs. [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-x9wC94E38#t=441](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-x9wC94E38#t=441).
&gt; An inferior (meaning, lacking some aspects) of Oracle's JDK. Funny how you're now just changing the definition to "inferior" to retrofit the discussion to your own needs. &gt; This is pathetic. No you are.
I did some Node.js stuff for a while. It was fun. It's a bit like going on a holiday and then finding out the place you live is actually really nice, clean and doesn't have all the crap the holiday place had but didn't show in the brochures. 
I use maven even for my small test projects. It's nice since they're all sub-modules and all have the basic references I need (jUnit, mockito, logging framework, etc.). I don't get why people think it's too much work; the IDE generates the POM anyway. 
We've also updated the performance comparison statistics among (possibly) all other Java CSV parsers to see how each parser performs when running on JDK's 6, 7, and 8. https://github.com/uniVocity/csv-parsers-comparison This is an independent comparison of CSV parsers, which includes parsers built using other programming languages: https://bitbucket.org/ewanhiggs/csv-game/overview
If that was your takeaway from what I said, then you may be beyond helping. You should be using some off the shelf open source components instead of reinventing the wheel. The point is with Docker it doesn't matter what they were written with or what their system dependencies are, it is all sandboxed. I can see your mind is made up though. If you are a JVM at all costs developer then Docker doesn't really give you much. 
I see how this could be a problem. Luckily the team I worked with wasn't like that.
We should implement a JVM on top of node.js. We could combine the disadvantages of both platforms!
Roguelike! Essentially what you do is top down perspective turn based (or real time if you want) game where graphics are replaced by ascii symbols. It's fun to make and is good base for learning new things - you can develop your game with new features all the time (items management, enemies AI, etc.) I loved ADOM game i played it for years! here you ahve some screenshots: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/2/29/Adom_screenshot1_small.png http://www.spidernfsoft.ru/ADOM/map_ADoM.gif http://i06.kanobu.net/r/b56545b4ef8f90141a98b9c7ad5a81cf/1040x-/u.kanobu.ru/images/2012/04/17/9732e602-1dd7-4fe5-b0a7-274ccebc2317.jpg EDIT: Oh, I just noticed /u/king_of_the_universe already suggested that so upvotes for him!
Moving from Development to QA to Production is not always so simple. Sometimes the production environment is configured in a specific way for other apps as well. That's just one of many things that can go wrong. 
I use DropWizard Jersey-based backend with a FreeMarker/Bootstrap/AngularJS front end. There is a trend for going container-less. Here is a simple site I made with that technology stack: [https://bitcoinium.com/](https://bitcoinium.com/) And some other getting-started with DropWizard example code here: [https://github.com/timmolter/XDropWizard](https://github.com/timmolter/XDropWizard) For DB, I use a small lightweight lib that no one else uses. Maven is popular and Gradle is gaining momentum.
http://ninjaframework.org/ http://sparkjava.com/ http://www.ratpack.io/ They are not 'de facto' standards, but worth taking a look.
Oke thx, already expected i had to use notifications but just wanted to know if there was another way 
you can be a project manager w/o knowing dick about technical stuff, it's fine. Just be a good manager, listen to them, manage expectations, keep up to date
There are other alternatives here of course. For example, if you have a business layer system that the clients talk to instead of talking direct to the database (If you can avoid it, never have clients talking direct to the database!) then they can be informed by the business layer when something changes. That then makes this refresh a business logic function and nothing more, so the database remains being a database and nothing more...
For those who, like me, had problems importing modules with 14.x.x: In 13.x.x you could select the root folder (containing the `src` folder and the `.iml` file) of the project that you wanted to import as a module. Then you had to click through a few windows (4 or something). In 14.x.x, this process stops after 2 windows with no success. In 14.x.x you select the `.iml` file itself and are instantly done. I assume that this worked even in 13.x.x, I just never used this before and now thought that 14.x.x had a considerable bug - until I just found out about this by trying.
Oh I know. That's why I said it was silly and hopefully isn't used in any production environment. I was merely trying to show that docker is a self contained environment (like a VM) for one to many types of applications and not just a web server
Great idea and thanks for the help too!
May I suggest our data integration framework [uniVocity](http://www.univocity.com/pages/about-univocity) to perform this for you? It is free for non-commercial users. With it, you can create a very simple process that reads your database to collect the latest changes (or everything in the database if you don't have a way to identify what are the latest changes, such as columns with timestamps). It will detect any change made in the source database and will transfer this automaticallly for you. The destination schema may be completely different from the source schema, if you have a destination database. If you don't have a destination database, no problem. Anything can be the destination of your data, just create a wrapper for it. We created [this demonstration app](http://www.univocity.com/pages/demonstration) with an example use case. [He have this github project](https://github.com/uniVocity/univocity-examples) with the source code of this app and many other examples. [Our github page](https://github.com/uniVocity/) has some other projects that may be of interest as well. I can create a demonstration project for your case if you provide more information about your requirements (source and destination schemas).
&gt; You would use Docker to add an installation of MySQL to run alongside your Java application after you've compiled it May be that would be useful for small, internal projects, but I can't imagine doing that for any large project which requires scalability.
I don't think you're getting it entirely yet. If you have scripts that perform some task like pulling updates (I would hope through package management) you can still write those and schedule them. Or you can make them part of your startup process. 
No, I'm not. That is how inferior is used. The OpenJDK is inferior, it lacks some of the goodies provided by the Oracle JDK. Is it close? Sure. Still inferior. Get over it. I'm not the one trying to claim two different products (and sourcing that they are two different things even if very close) are the exact same thing just to fit a pathetic argument that was a strawman in the first place.
You probably can make a deamon, which manages your pictures and docs. With java IO you can move files to backup folders, grouped by date and everything you need. It's good start for cloud programming, because if you're able to group and move files from directory to another directory, then it's quite easy to use some of cloud like dropbox API to upload it to the internet, for example encrypted somehow instead allowing them to use yours raw data.
How is it less scalable than building VMs?
&gt; How do you think it became a "very mature language with a huge community", huh? Mainly through the work of some very big companies like IBM that embraced it. I'm not saying the cross platform aspect wasn't an influence (not at all, it was a big think back when I started with Java in '98), I'm saying that these days compared to the other benefits it's not the major selling point anymore. 
&gt; All of Java's OS specific code runs across all OS's No. It doesn't. It is apparent you never dealt with the breadth of problems AWT or Swing has, which has many components that depend upon native code that behave slightly different at times. A lot of people wouldn't ever notice because often enough, they don't actually test outside of their specific intended OS. Here's one. Say you're drawing text on a screen. In Windows you draw it so you have a nice buffer near the edge, and it looks all nice and pretty. So, what happens when you try running that code on Linux? Your text is cut off. Oops, looks like font behavior is not handled the same across platforms when drawing text directly to a canvas. So first fix is to accommodate that. Just one example that I ran across personally even. Do you actually know the proper way to setup a program with the dispatcher? Because it is far more complicated than just starting a thread. &gt; What about the specific Again: The core was just open sourced and the implementations for Linux/ios are still coming, and then they'll take a little bit for testers to test it. And yes, Mono can do all those things. Didn't I say that? Are you bothered to listen or have you already made up your mind on what the answer is?
It is absolutely still a major selling point. It is a big deal, and a lot picked it for projects with that as a major pro *including me*. As far as languages go, Java is pretty far behind, as I was stating. In reality, both Java and C# are very similar languages, and the primary pro Java still had on its list was cross platform support. That's gone now. You aren't considering this as a comparison that I initially put forth. With that gone now, why would you pick Java over C#? The glut of open source libraries? That's only a concern of time. As C# gets more and more, which will most certainly happen with this announcement, what do you have left for Java? Nothing but legacy. Oh, no, it will still have pretty big following for a long time, but slowly, over time... Either Oracle needs to step up, or it will fade. Well, most languages do fade overtime, but I don't necessarily think Java has to now. But again, with Oracle's behavior... doubtful.
JPA is basically a standardization of a large subset of Hibernate, the two are hard to tell apart. The JPA standard had large input from the Hibernate team themselves. The two XML formats are very similar, and the annotations are almost the same except for the package names. The simplest is to take the book Java Persistence with Hibernate, and not worry too much about the differences. Although in theory they are a standard and an implementation, in practice they are mostly one and the same thing. As a general approach, try to do it in JPA first. If its a corner feature that is not supported, then fallback to the Hibernate annotation but use its fully qualified class name to put in evidence to anyone reading the code that this is Hibernate specific and not JPA. This also allows to go back later to search where Hibernate specific annotations are used. I have seen a project that used Hibernate directly without JPA, the code is virtually indistinguishable from a JPA project.
Using Git can be a solution to your problems.
&gt; Safest way seems to be always saving your work as a project file No, safest way is to use git together with github. Version control systems are the way to go here. With your solution it's still very easy to mess up. I don't know if google drive even keeps a history of .java files but it's always inferior to git.
&gt; I want to make a site similar to this, but i dont understand the concept behind it. Are they scraping the sites before hand and then when you search, they pull the relevant info from what they have acquired? This particular site just seems to use the [google API](https://developers.google.com/web-search/docs/) to present specific results. They 100% depend on the google API and google's crawlers.
If you did want to make a site like this, i would recommend using [Jsoup](http://jsoup.org/) for the scraping, it's a *very* powerful library for parsing html
DropWizard looks very interesting indeed. What are you using for data access and persistence? I see they promote JDBI on the DropWizard site. Also can you elaborate on "there is a trend for going container-less"? Do you mean container-less = no DI/IoC container, or container-less = no application server (e.g., Tomcat). If the former, how do you wire up your application services? Thanks!
A foreign language dictionary.
Write an advanced command API!
thank you for not being a jerk :) ill ask over there
print line with spaces + A print line with spaces + AA print line with spaces + A + space + A print line with A + spaces + A Now do your homework. 
i don't understand :(
Side note here. I'm currently an intern on the WebSphere team at IBM, so it's kind of neat to see it mentioned here.
Yet I have found it to be a common trait of "Type A" personalities. And these are the people that often start companies. Look at Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Larry Ellison, etc (not a completely list, I could add a good number of my bosses to the list, a number of which were self made millionaires). Highly opinionated, wanting things their way ONLY, dismissive of others contributions, and the like. You can say it is unprofessional, but the management style is too common. When this is the case, you will often find the team spends a good amount of time managing their manager, instead of the other way around.
you're going to have to think about it in terms of a math problem and figure out the amount of spaces you need per line, where you need them and why based on the number of lines the user wants printed. You're going to have to figure out when to print a space and when to print an A and build it character by character, line by line.
It means that apparently you expect us to do your homework. Which is why you're downvoted.
For database access I'm using my own library [Yank](https://github.com/timmolter/Yank). JDBI and JOOQ are somewhat similar. Containerless means no Tomcat or JBoss application server for example. Just `mvn package` and run the jar. DropWizard used an embedded Jetty instance. If you're interested in DropWizard you can read the README file of the above linked XDropWizard project among other resources.
&gt; I want to make a site similar to this, but i dont understand the concept behind it. Are they scraping the sites before hand and then when you search, they pull the relevant info from what they have acquired? Yes, the basic principle is to crawl the web, scraping the sites you want, and storing the information in a database. Then when someone searches, pulling the relevant information from the database. For speed, you use multiple crawlers and multiple databases. What information you store in the database determines how effective your search engine is.
My worry is for example, If I crawl craigslist, there are millions and millions of entry's. Having 10 sites the same size also being scarped and crawled seems like im going to need a lot of servers. 
I just want to comment and say this is a great question and is being responded to with a lot of informative answers. I've been having a hard time conceptualizing the differences between docker and a traditional VM and the answers here are very insightful, at least from a high level
What? It's exactly the opposite. Overkill for small projects and perfect for easier scalability.
I setup docker to run one of my dropwizard servers. It was not awfully difficult, but it was not significantly easier than setting up any other server to run a java program. I could imagine a few places where there might be some time to boot advantages over installing a java jar file. But on the whole the huge advantage for Docker comes from system where you have a scripting language like PHP or Ruby, and you have to installed does of Gems and occasionally C based libs to make things work. In this case deploying the app to a virgin machine is not as simple as a) install java b) copy jar c) run jar. So in this case I think there are HUGE deployment advantages in speed and repeatability. Finally there is the use case where docker helps to ensure that your test machine looks exactly like your deployment machine. Again this is hugely useful in the case of languages that deploy lib ahead of the application. IN java's case people tend to package all needed dependencies IN the deployed jar, so the advantages are much less. Today, many many groups are moving to more micro server and heterogenous systems. In this case being able to have all of those system deploy and manage via the same process, is I think, an important win. In this case I could see advantage in deploying a java app inside a docker image because it makes that app look and work just like the node.js app and the php app that may be deployed along side it. 
Did you read the **sidebar**? &gt;News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language IF you need **HELP** with some programming problem, /r/Javahelp is the sub of choice. **BUT** you need to show some efforts on your own. We're not going to do your homework for you. Neither here in /r/Java, nor in /r/Javahelp. **Post removed - No "Do my homework" posts**
Does anyone know if this fixes the problem with some files not showing up in the project browser when made?
&gt; Isn't that what Maven does? Yeah, since Maven can combine two Java projects, you wouldn't have to use Docker for that. Docker throws the pieces together after build time, and with Maven you would typically set it up to build you an uber jar, so you'd be throwing the pieces together at build time. There are some advantages to both approaches. &gt; sounds like it would be a pain to update it on all the other dockers When you change an app, it's pretty much automatically a pain to update it in multiple places. Though tools can make it easier. Docker is really more geared toward the area of deployment than Maven is. Maven is about turning your source into binaries and giving you a place to store those binaries, but its ability to store binaries is really focused on allowing it to do builds. (For example, you might want to use an uber jar on your production servers, but Maven repos aren't really meant to store those. Though you can make it work.) Docker, on the other hand, is all about storing, copying, and installing all the files you need to actually deploy to production servers (or development servers or desktops). You don't have to mess around with individual files. You just tell Docker to bring up a container, and it does it.
Not any more, but it use to cause a lot of frustration when I tranzitioned from .net to java. Once in a while I still find myself wanting a quick solution by using an instanceof on a generic or even 'new T()'(you can force T to respect a contract, not just inheritance) Needing this in my java code now, will signal me a bad design. Even so, I'll probably never see type erasuare as an actual jvm feature. To me it's a downside and a behavior that needs to be understood.
I use Dropbox and it works fine. I have had similar issues with Google Drive
My suggestion would be to separate your workspace and your project. Keep the workspace (which is metadata and contains some absolute paths) in one folder on each computer, then keep the project (code, jars for dependencies, .project file, .classpath file) in a totally separate folder that you can pass back and forth. Also, make sure your .classpath file has only relative paths in it, not absolute. Or, build your project with Maven and let IT handle your dependencies.
Try joda money 
You have to pay in order to private repositories in Github. Bitbucket is free and not that bad.
If you're looking for an HTML parsing API, JSoup is very good. I've used it with static pages, such as Wikipedia. I'm not sure how it would deal with pages that load content with javascript, but it's worth a try. If you end up using it, let me know how it goes. As for how it works, my guess would be some sort of database made from pre-scraping or accessing the website's APIs directly. Add a search engine, fine tuning, and backend hardware, and you're good to go.
can fire up a microkernel on the amazon EC2 cloud and host your own git/subversion repository on it. free for a year until something better comes along...
jOOq is easy to use and provides a nice way to interact with the database while also getting out of the way for query writing. Hibernate is one of those things that is easy to get started, but can become hard to debug particularly around performance problems. For the standard web app, I think Hibernate is overkill. For a heavy write app, particularly with trees of objects Hibernate is useful. Containerless is really the way to go now. When you can package up everything into a versioned jar, all your target server needs is java. Provisioning and deployment become super easy. Since you mentioned Spring above, take a look at SpringBoot. It can run containerless with jOOq easily. It also is using all of 'new' Spring so you can configure it completely in java code with minimal if any xml.
Omg I read sooo many slideshares where you were involved, it's nice to have someone like you answer questions on reddit. Your latest video on Spring boot with Vaadin is excellent, thanks. By the way, I began my app with Spring boot, but I find it difficult to implement some other spring features because of the following : Most spring tutorials use Spring without boot, so they configure a lot of things manually and use directly the related dependencies and not the "starter" dependencies. So sometimes I'm confused on how to make things in the "boot's way" and not in the old spring way (I hope you understand what I mean). It already happened to me to redo something completely from the begining because the way to do it with boot is different. So my question is : - Do you know a good book for Spring boot ? I'm waiting for something like "Spring boot in action" but do you know anything else that is available right now ? (I already read most of the gs guides on the spring website). Thanks !
I've used DropWizard and JDBI a couple times and was generally pretty happy with the results. [Flyway](http://flywaydb.org/) also looks nice for database migrations.
&gt; this is really old. is it correct that this was fixed in java7 with the UNICODE_CHARACTER_CLASS flag? (or using (?U)) Always read the comments on SO, especially when the post is so old. This is actually a big problem with SO. The best answers now tend to be the second/third answer or in the comments to the first answer. Things change, but SO's ranking doesn't handle time particularly smartly it seems.
I see, so not that big a big deal for java. That's what I thought too.
Well I'm sorta stuck on java 1.6 at work (have to keep 1.4 in my mind...) and didn't test it with a newer version, so I usually try to not give the good, new stuff a shot and get totally excited. But that's really nice to hear! I've fixed the initial post, but can't fix the headline, but made it clear that it's &lt; 1.7 Edit: Got too much word
Or you can roll a bit of your own. Right now we're building a new project using Guice, Spark (mentioned above), jOOq, and jetty. We have pulled the Metrics project from drop wizard for easy instrumentation. The front end is an SPA so the backend is just services. Every project is different, but I would try to keep it as simple as possible and add complexity where needed. For example, if you're going to deliver the UI as JSPs, then SpringMVC and some template engine might make more sense. Good luck!
Haha, lucky you! I have to fight with "Continuus" and the in-house build-systems and convert the eclipse scripts to a proper IDE ;) Really need to dip into 7/8, but didn't know those minor quirks being fix when I looked over the changes that make the newer releases awesome!
With a VM, you usually run a db in its own node, and have more resources available to it.
Ninja - Generally, I shy away from anything claiming to be a "full-stack" framework due to its historical meaning and tendency to have overly strict and opinionated conventions. But, I'll give the docs and sample application a shot. Spark - In general, I love Sinatra-inspired frameworks. This is something I would definitely consider using for tiny or experimental applications. Not quite sure if it's ready for large scale production applications. Please correct me if I'm wrong. RatPack - I like the philosophy and the fact it's built on top Netty, but I'm not sure how I feel about using a framework that isn't based on the latest Servlet specification for building web applications. Thanks for the suggestions. Good to know these exist.
&gt; GUIs on desktop are going the way of the dinosaur Nice opinion. So, you found out you were full of it, but instead of just taking it you claim it's irrelevant? You were wrong, buddy. Why wasn't it "matter less &amp; less with time" when we were talking about C# GUI libraries? Huh? you just want your cake and eat it too. &gt; What matters now is the other things I talked about: **Other?** Oh, I see, like again, now you want to pretend like you never said window management. How honest of you. &gt; Then let me know when a volunteer developed implementation ever reaches the level of performance that the JVM has Mono already has. And on Windows, C# crushes Java. And... uh, **Microsoft is developing them**, not volunteers. You haven't bothered to educate yourself on this topic *at all*. And I think that's really sad, that you feel like commenting without taking a single shred of intellectual honesty and at least reading the basics before you open up that mouth and show us how much you don't know. &gt; No you didn't, not to me. Yes, I did, and I quote my very first reply to you: "But you can expect at least the quality of Mono, and yes, Mono does all you stated and the performance is very high." I find it pathetic you couldn't even bother checking the previous post on the matter before making an outright false statement. &gt; but its very limited Well, you've "heard" wrong, or what you've "heard" was quite a long ways in the past. Also, Java has lacked very basic features like closures for, well, almost a decade. It's just coming out with them, barely, and they aren't even full closures. &gt; Look, if Microsoft themselves provided these implementations *Sigh*, I'll reiterate since you made the same wrong claim again, they are going to. Microsoft just showed they are committed to making C# be cross platform (all of .net core, not just C#), and so yes, it is very much a threat to Java (it was, in fact, a threat to Java already, now it's just a clear one).
OK, you found some edge cases where Java GUI programming isn't great, I'll give it to you. We can say Java isn't good at GUI. It still doesn't matter, because like I said, GUI programming is obsolete, in future most stuff will be done on the web, with a server backend. And on servers, Linux owns the market. &gt; Mono already has. Benchmarks, please. Also, Mono is incomplete, there are a lot of things it doesn't have, not to mention IDE support. Java has IntelliJ, Netbeans, and (though I hate it) Eclipse, on Linux. What does Mono have? And does Mono have all the features Java has? &gt; And on Windows, C# crushes Java. Good for Windows, but as I said, servers is what matters in future, and that market is owned by Linux. The other thing that matters is mobile phones, that too is being taken by Unix solutions, either native apps, or web apps which are cordova'd. &gt; Microsoft is developing them MS has just open sourced them. Can you show me a source that they are developing Linux &amp; IOS implementations?
Making these toImmutable* collectors is a great way to teach yourself about Java 8's [Collector](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collector.html). I recommend it to anyone who sort of understands what Stream is about but is shaky on the collect operation. I've seen a couple of other implementations: https://github.com/OpenGamma/OG-Commons/blob/master/collect/src/main/java/com/opengamma/collect/Guavate.java https://code.google.com/p/guava-libraries/source/browse/guava/src/com/google/common/collect/ImmutableList.java?repo=jdk8-experimental#305 (for example) The void that these fill is pretty obvious, as soon as you start to do anything involving immutable collections and streams. This gets old real fast: ImmutableMultiset&lt;Foo&gt; stuff = elements.stream() .filter/map/etc .collect(Collectors.collectingAndThen( Collectors.toCollection(LinkedHashMultiset::create), ImmutableMultiset::copyOf));
I'd choose: * JAX-RS / Jersey * Grizzly * Rythm template engine * Guice * Bean Validation * Guava * Maven * Hibernate * Functional Java library
Uhuh, sure, "edge" cases. Drawing text on a screen is an edge case. And another really bad excuse... Also, I'll be clear, you're full of shit. And to prove such, all I should need to direct you to are the sheer number of apps on your smart phones, likely Java, with GUIs. &gt; Benchmarks, please. What, you can't bother to look up anything yourself before you make bullshit statements like "Mono is incomplete"? First [link](http://benchmarksgame.alioth.debian.org/u64q/csharp.php) when you search for it shows C# the clear victor in some tests. I'm sure there are some out there that show Java coming out ahead too, but it should be quite clear they're both performant. &gt; What does Mono have? Visual Studio, for one, which is heralded to be the best IDE there is by a pretty big long shot. Oh, and thanks to the community edition now released if you're in a small team it's free. But, maybe you want a full free solution... well, you have MonoDevelop specifically for it. And here's one for you... Eclipse, although you hate it. So there are three, perfectly coinciding with your three. The paid advanced one (VS vs IntelliJ), the free specific one (Netbeans vs MonoDevelop), and Eclipse. &gt; And does Mono have all the features Java has? Can you not read? This is the 4th time now. Not only does it have said features, but *far, far more*. You keep claiming Mono is incomplete, but it is considered compatible with .net 4.5 with the exception of gui code (since it's platform specific). I hope you're not again trying to eat your cake and have it too again. &gt; servers is what matters in the future, and that market is owned by Linux Microsoft has an estimated 40-45% of the server market share, a far far cry from being dominated. In reality, you're just making things up on baseless assumptions. &gt; Can you show me a source that they are developing Linux &amp; IOS implementations? Every single article covering this topic in existence? [From themselves?](http://news.microsoft.com/2014/11/12/microsoft-takes-net-open-source-and-cross-platform-adds-new-development-capabilities-with-visual-studio-2015-net-2015-and-visual-studio-online/) Read that whole thing. They have a VS for all OSs even in preview (which even has an android emulator baked in), and, released Cordova tools (sound familiar)? I don't know why you think everything should be spoon fed to you like a child. Can you at least have a little decency and learn for yourself for even a few seconds? Or do I need to highlight every important sentence in that news article or give you a couple more articles to boot?
C# has a lot to offer: http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_the_Java_and_.Net_platforms So I THINK .NET will reduce Java market share a bit in the next years. 
&gt; Also, I'll be clear, you're full of shit. And to prove such, all I should need to direct you to are the sheer number of apps on your smart phones, likely Java, with GUIs. And I'll direct you to things like PhoneGap which let you write your apps in HTML5 and compile natives for every platform out of that. Who would write a native for every platform when they can have write once, run everywhere with HTML 5. &gt; Visual Studio, for one, Which runs on Windows only. I asked about Linux equivalents. I'm not going to run a shitty OS like Windows to develop C#, and the same is true for a lot of developers: Most run Mac or Linux. IntelliJ is cross platform (and written in Java btw). &gt; . You keep claiming Mono is incomplete OK, I actually googled this, and this is what I found: &gt; You will hardly get the same source code to run everywhere. For example, XNA code wont run on every desktop, while .NET Desktop software wont run on XNA or the phone. You typically need to make changes to your code to run in other profiles of the .NET Framework. http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/20275/mono-is-frequently-used-to-say-yes-net-is-cross-platform-how-valid-is-that Also, I found reviews of Mono like: &gt; Whenever I try to get anything serious to run on Mono, I'm typically fighting through bugs in the implementation. Fortunately, I'm not uncomfortable downloading the source, finding the problem, issuing a pull request, and then recompiling on Linux. But I've done this exact thing more times than I care to remember. http://blog.jonathanoliver.com/why-i-left-dot-net/ You can -hardly- say that Mono is at the same level as Java. If it was, then MS open sourcing .net wouldn't be a news at all, because it was already open source. Also, didn't you say earlier that 'linux and iOS implementations will have to be developed'? If they have to be developed, then how does Mono already have them? Which one is it? &gt; Microsoft has an estimated 40-45% of the server market share No it doesn't. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems#Public_Servers_on_the_Internet According to those, it has a 32% share. And that number is declining. Everything is moving to the cloud. Can you honestly say C# is a widely used language on the cloud? Are there frameworks for it like Java has, e.g Vert.x, Play, etc, which are aimed specifically at cloud computing &amp; being scalable? Are there db drivers for noSql databases written in C# which are as mature as the ones for Java? Also, I did a ctrl + f for Linux on http://news.microsoft.com/2014/11/12/microsoft-takes-net-open-source-and-cross-platform-adds-new-development-capabilities-with-visual-studio-2015-net-2015-and-visual-studio-online/ . It only mentions it twice, and it doesn't say anywhere that they are going to be providing abstractions for OS features for all OS's to enable write once, run anywhere, like Java does. If it says that, please point it out.
I like to use [mechanize4j](https://github.com/GistLabs/mechanize) to browse the web, since it support .submit(). Thought, please note that the license is MPL, I'm not sure if that's really equivalent to LGPL or you actually have to open your source code, if someone ask for it.
You're not printing out i, you're printing out the value of the array at position i.
cs02rm0 oh thanks a lot
Posts like these are better suited for /r/Javahelp. /r/Java is for : &gt;News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language As is described in the **sidebar**.
http://htmlunit.sourceforge.net/ https://webarchive.jira.com/wiki/display/Heritrix/Heritrix https://code.google.com/p/crawler4j/
Why does everyone treat SQL like the plague? It's not that hard
We are not here to do your homework for you. Try /r/javahelp for that.
Further, isn't it easier to learn SQL once rather than learn a half-dozen ORMs and each languages specific idiosyncrasies? 
&gt; ... allowing you to write readable queries in a type safe way. The main point about internal or embedded (?) DSLs and fluent interfaces is that you try to exploit as much as possible the existing language features (e.g. type system) to restrict syntax and detect errors as early as possible. Now your system *does* in fact accomplish type safety, readability and improves maintainability (e.g. refactoring) but you basically lose *all* syntax guarantees, e.g. people can write any crap lambda expression and you won't know until run time. Consider a fluent interface that looks like this: IntProp age = intProp(Person.class, "getAge"); IntProp height = intProp(Person.class, "getHeight"); age.isLessThan(100).and(height.isGreaterThan(200)) Now syntax is restricted but it's not as readable as the lambda version. I like neither solution that much, but having some system (JaQue) arbitrarily analyze bytecode of lambdas which works only for some cases and then further (run-time) restrictions on what is actually allowed makes me more anxious than slightly ugly syntax, where I am clearly aware of the limitations. Personally, I would prefer jOOQ (/u/lukaseder would mention it sooner or later anyway :P as he always does).
Yeah sorry about that, I didn't see the other guy's comment until I posted mine. 
&gt; And I'll direct you to things like PhoneGap which let you write your apps in HTML5 and compile natives for every platform out of that. Who would write a native for every platform when they can have write once, run everywhere with HTML 5. That's a complete nonsequitor. A lot of people, apparently. "Well, they could have used HTML 5." Well, they didn't. &gt; Which runs on Windows only. My god, I **just proved that it doesn't**, with a source. It runs on Linux now. VS Preview 15 runs on Linux. You seem to lack basic reading comprehension abilities. I also like how you ignored the others... &gt; OK, I actually googled this, and this is what I found: What the hell did you google? XNA is not Mono! Holy shit, you have some serious problems. XNA was also discontinued years ago. You just found out that you can't used Windows specific libraries, something I told you in the *first post*. &gt; You can -hardly- say that Mono is at the same level as Java. Not only did you ignored the rest of your source, such as this: "I've had several applications running in production for almost a year on Mono without any issues.", but you're also making a huge fallacy there bud. Mono is at the same level as Java, just that the official .net core is past that level by a longshot. And no, just because you have an optional library that was open source does not mean the official implementation is open source. &gt; Also, didn't you say earlier that 'linux and iOS implementations will have to be developed'? If they have to be developed, then how does Mono already have them? Which one is it? See, you don't even understand the *basics* of this discussion and need to be spoon fed. Mono is not .NET core. Why do you think I'm referring to two separate things? My god. &gt; No it doesn't. Yes, it does. Maybe you should look up statistics on not just **PUBLIC** servers. As your full of yourself, you apparently think 1/3 isn't a good chunk either. Your own source claims Linux is at 38% while Windows is 32%. I'm sorry, a 6% difference isn't making a killing. In other words, you disproved your own bullshit trying to disprove me rather ironically. Yet you don't seem to care. And then you *made up* a claim that the share is falling? WTF? So, apparently it was even larger or something? You're full of it. &gt; Also, I did a ctrl + f THE FIRST SENTENCE: "On Wednesday, Microsoft Corp. reinforced its commitment to cross-platform developer experiences by open sourcing the full server-side .NET stack and **expanding .NET to run on the Linux and Mac OS platforms.**" You can't even bother to read the *first sentence*. That's how dishonest you are. I said read the whole thing, apparently when you did a ctrl + f you just read Linux and then blanked out. You are apparently a child that needs to be spoon fed.
Yes it most certainly is easier to just learn SQL.
AFAIK it wont support custom currencies. :(
// YOUR CODE GOES HERE // YOUR CODE GOES HERE // YOUR CODE GOES HERE // YOUR CODE GOES HERE Your code and not mine. This is as easy as it gets if you put in effort in doing it. Write a for loop for the sum method and cycle through the array length. Average is even simpler, just call the sum method and divide it by the list size
Blasphemy!!! Burn him!
Yes, up to a point. Once you get to the point that you need to write very complicated queries, your ORMs and SQL query string builders are probably useless anyway, and this project is a good example of that being the case (though it's cool from a purely technical perspective). It's doing some fairly exotic stuff to ultimately accomplish very little.
/r/Javahelp will also not tolerate "Do My Homework" posts. No efforts - no help. It's even in the guidelines that "Do My Homework" posts will be removed without warning.
You put minimal effort into your homework, I put minimal effort into helping: public static double average(int list[]){ return 107.2; } public static int sum(int list[]){ return 536; }
I rather treat everything as objects in code then SQL strings. Also this level of abstractions gives you the ability to switch your data store from mysql to oracle for example and do all kind of cool things like level 2 caching etc'. Saying that, I think every programmer that uses sql implicitly must learn sql. this includes the storage engine they are using (myisqm, innodb) and the basics of databases, performance penalties, indexes, acid and nosql. etc'. But code wise? Unless needed to, I'd use an abstraction.
&gt; jOOQ I recently had to use JDBI for work and found it quite painful. jOOQ looks neat on the surface, but it's usually hard to be certain until you start building with the thing. Primarily, the question I'm asking is there any reason I should be 'sold' or 'selling' this on our next project? * How would you describe your experience using it in production? * Are there any annoyances - such as having to create 'hacks' to get around the limitations of the library? * Are there any areas where it becomes unwieldy, or difficult to customize? * Refactoring (either Java changes or SQL db changes)? * DB migrations? * Debugging, Error Handling, useful Exceptions? * Is it friendly to SQL noobs? * Compatibility with diverse SQL implementations (i.e. H2, Oracle, etc.)?
That is the bigger issue. The problem is you are mixing two languages together. That is almost never clean. In the case of SQL it is a necessity.
That is a very good point indeed. I wonder if annotation processors would help in doing the checks at compile time... Even if they do; they bring additional complexity. Actually, using the same JaQue library you could do this: IntProp age = intProp(Person::getAge); so maybe you can have the best of both worlds. 
The best general purpose tool is HtmlUnit, because it supports JavaScript. Sure, you could learn one tool for no-script sites, and one for scripted sites, but why?
This looks suspiciously like homework...
The api looks great but I was disappointed to learn there's not a Joda equivalent of Interval, at least not yet.
I'm just guessing here, but I think "Unann" is "Unannotated". UnannType includes all of: - int - char - boolean - Object - MyClass - T, K, V, (and other type aliases) But doesn't distinguish between @NonNull Object and Object.
Are u sure that Hipptenusa method is capital? Basically the compiler is not finding that Hipptenusa method in the Calc.java class. Maybe it doesnt exist? Remeber java is case sensitive. Maybe you spelled it wrong? Try miObjeto.hipotenusa(cateto1,cateto2);
I'm skeptical towards an article that decides to lump C# with C/C++ rather than with Java.
That is odd, considering that within the article he lumps java with C# and explains that C/C++ are for more for systems apps. The same graph has different lines for css and html too, which seems strange to me (both because they're not programming languages and because it would seem unusual to know one without the other)
Offer to save the person some time and set up custom formatter in your IDE that you can both use. Then if he needs to make corrections, you can blame the formatter. That should shut him up for the most part. 
You belong over here /r/javahelp.
IDE formatter in combination with checkstyle/sonar and the discussions shall end.
Mostly agree, but "full delegation mode" should not mean 'disengaged'. Just know your role, but stay close to all the developers, meet with them individually on occasion and sit in on enough of the meetings to show that you care (but keep your mouth shut where it doesn't belong). If there's too much distance between them and you, they'll likely become cynical and assume the worst about your decisions.
Establish a coding style guideline. It's best practice to do this anyway, both to avoid stupid arguments like this, and to make sure everyone's code looks relatively uniform, which will make it easier/less distracting to read. To be clear: as everyone else has suggested, agreeing on a formatting tool with certain formatting parameters is essentially coming up with a machine checked coding style, which I find to be extremely effective.
CI build should fail if Checkstyle violation is detected. 
I actually prefer the first example he gave, its more readable and you don't have to remember the order of parameters. There's nothing stopping anyone from reworking the internals of the class while keeping the API the same.
His argument is really that classes should have few responsibilities, which seems achievable without immutability. 
You can't have setters and immutability at the same time. You can't do this without changing the api.
Just read the article and thought the exact same thing. This interface: interface Stamp { void attach(Message message); } is near impossible to implement without some form of mutability. I also think the second example could be improved if he added some combinator-style functions to hide the object construction: defaultPostman( smtp("smtp.googlemail.com", 465, "user", "pwd") ).send( mimeEnvelope( stamps( sender("Yegor Bugayenko &lt;yegor@teamed.io&gt;"), recipient("dude@jcabi.com"), subject("how are you?") ), enclosures( plain("Dude, how are you?") ) ); 
Assuming you mean actual code changes and not just formatting, run javap and a static analyzer on the files and have an honest discussion about the real benefits of their changes. Or you could just ignore them. Some people just like to talk about coding and if you tell them you're busy, or generally ignore them, they wont be getting the reward of looking clever and may stop. That being said, make sure they aren't giving you some good ideas -- having someone on hand who can materially improve your code is a good thing. 
**interferred** is not a word. Please fix.
I don't think that people should see this as exactly what he says it is -- all getters and setters are evil. I think that if you take this as a lesson about really bad class design as illustrated by the common email class, then you're learning something useful. There is a better and safer way to write an email class. This can also be applied to other situations. I agree with most comments that it is not a black and white thing, but I am glad that I read this article because it taught me stuff and made me think about class organization more.
His "improved" version is also a potential resource hog, requiring lots of rapid object creation and destruction. In an actual high-volume production environment, this can exhaust the heap space and lead to frequent garbage collection. He is also speaking in absolutes which automatically makes me discount his opinion. There is a good case to be made for an immutable object model but his example here is not a good one.
Agreed. I've settled on the default StyleCop template for all our C# coding at work.
thanks, fixed
Wouldn't there be some issues with how much the interviewee can say regarding the way the system was built. I've worked on a few contracts where it was explicitly written out that I couldn't say much regarding exact architecture. I know the big companies like to put these into their contracts at least.
Dear god some schools are still teaching C as a first language? And people wonder why there is a high drop rate in CS programs.
And they separated .NET from C#. That chart is useless.
Are you sure it's a bad thing?
Not sure what you're being downvoted for. Without directly seeing before and after the changes, we can't know if he's doing silly things in his code even if they're functionally the same. int i=3; while (i &gt; 0) { //do stuff i--; } is functionally the same as for (int i =3; i&gt;0; i--){ //do stuff } and I don't think anyone would argue about changing the first to the second. 
Because am on the side of the 'oppressor' here. ;) I remember we had a dev a while ago who refused to have variable names longer than 4 characters. For readability, as he put it!
Probably electronic class. You can't really use anything else than C.
I don't really know what the level of changes you're taking about is, or what exactly these changes are so take this with a grain of salt. That being said, it sounds like he is making formatting changes to your code, yes? It is generally good practice to keep formatting uniform within a given file, and preferably across the entire code base. If your coworker is making formatting changes to your code in order to achieve this then I would tend to agree with them. In this case, you should probably talk to them about what the established formatting style is for your code base and then set up your IDE so it formats it like this automatically (a number of other posts talk about this so I won't provide suggestions on that here). This way all the code you type will be formatted properly so your coworker is happy, and you don't have to worry about formatting or deal with your coworker's complaints anymore so you should be happy too. However, if this isn't the case and your coworker is doing something else then I have no idea what is going on and would need more information on the situation to give any suggestions on how to deal with them.
Honestly, why is this posted ? There are literally thousands and thousands of java projects many of which do regular releases. I know jetty is a reasonably important part of the ecosystem, but I'm still not understanding why posting announcements of releases is valuable to /r/java. Perhaps we should have a /r/javareleases subreddit ?
tx
I don't know about other people, but I think my personal progression around which aspects of coding are important did at one point include things like "style" (by which I mean where do the curly braces go and if tabs or spaces where important ). Eventually, I realized that other things were actually more important, so now I try to worry about those things. So I would say that the control freak's intentions are actually in the right place, she/he is trying to make the code better. So I would do two things. 1) As many are saying here, come up with a standard for your project(s). It's less important what is is, than that it IS a standard so you all can focus your worries on other things. That being said, I would consider a style guideline which is similar to the few that are in use in the java community( or whatever language you are using ). In this way you don't have to learn a new style when you go look at code in an apache or an eclipse based project. 2) Gently start talking about things that matter more. This could be things like naming conventions, or separation of concerns or encapsulation. It could also be process things like testing and release process. 
yeah, but everything else he complains about, e.g the 2000 line class, etc, can be reworked &amp; the class can be made more managable without changing the API. The email is essentially a builder class, it doesn't need to be immutable. Only thing I'd change is to do method chaining.
this is uglier to look at than the class from apache commons.
:)
I'm extremely skeptical about any library that deals with Currency. Most of my skepticism stems from the problem domain where I make most of my money: financial messaging. Just like Time, Money is a fucking nightmare. Every idiot and their aunt has their own version of just about anything. Weird decimal separators, weird currency symbol placements, weird thousand (or ten-thousand!) separators, weird rounding rules and whatnot. And then there's currency conversion. Whose rates? When were these last updated? What's the reference course? How does it deal with intermediary courses? All of this stuff could be highly application specific. And unless you have a highly modular system, it's probably going to be useless for all but the most basic operations. Java Money claims to solve most of these issues, so I'll remain pretty skeptical until after I've tested it properly. 
Viewing the byte code is not going to tell you anything about maintainability. I would even go as far as having less optimised byte code if the readability was noticeably better. 
What is wrong with teaching C as first language?
And functional languages when?
It's a fine language, but most developers are using OO languages (Java, C#) or functional(/OO) languages (Scala, JavaScript, Ruby, Python)
&gt; edits it to fit their style. What's your coding standard?
It is still the most used language. If someone likes CS, she should learn all type of languages. Otherwise she don't appreciate one language from the other.If someone drops out because of not wanting to learn fine language like C, it's one less crappy CS grad.
Never. In fact, I've yet to see or hear that a functional language is being taught in a university.
First year (miranda) and fourth year (scheme) at the University of Windsor.
I do agree with you on Python but my question was related how teaching C results in CS dropouts.I didn't phrase it properly. 
Good, it's beginning to be a real player in the job market, with most of the fun work being done in functional languages like Scala.
Oh I am not sure on that point haha
First year in Grenoble (France) - Scheme or Caml
Any suggestions for Java / Intellij?
There is no way we can know if someone is in the wrong here. You need to work this out. Make sure each session is 'recorded' ie keep both versions, test both versions. Check each version is optimal.
Agreed in the sense that code should be clean, readable, and maintainable ... but without seeing actual examples, it's difficult to be certain which side this falls on. That said, the OP is frustrated because he doesn't see any reasoning or value behind the refactors. If we give MrRefactor the benefit of the doubt that his refactors are good, IMO, MrRefactor is failing by (a) not explaining 'why' or the value of the refactor and (b) not having the OP do the refactor themselves. As such MrRefactor comes across as OCD, and wastes a lot of time refactoring.
JRE http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jre7-downloads-1880261.html JDK http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk7-downloads-1880260.html 
It's Python, right? Significant whitespace?
Well maybe the original post http://devsbuild.it/content/Which-Programming-Languages-Are-Most-Popular-Right-Now
What fun? Or the rise of functional languages? For the second here you go: http://www.indeed.com/jobtrends?q=Scala&amp;l= http://www.indeed.com/q-Scala-jobs.html http://www.indeed.com/jobtrends?q=Ruby&amp;l= http://www.indeed.com/jobtrends?q=Javascript&amp;l= 
Exactly.
Internally, I'd say this is a really good way to measure someone's knowledge of the code base. I feel that the ones who actively participate in code review and ask why code are layer out in certain ways and not others tend to be the ones that really understand or want to understand the underlying issues and can reason about the code their working with or relying on. However I agree that that system design information can't usually be disclosed or even really coveted over the course of an interview. I believe questions about side projects or the underlying framework/language they used are excellent questions. They are not usually in the private domain and are reasonable to ask about in my opinion. I still think this kind of interview is very low level though and questions about design, architecture, abstraction and typing, as well as pitfalls are much more fun. Specifically, questions that are not tied explicitly to a particular concrete system. Abstract thinking really does jive the mind. 
For a single data point, one of the first required classes in Carnegie Mellon's undergraduate CS program is a course on functional programming taught using SML. http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~15150/
I did too, it's not a good choice for most students though.
I follow a much better indicator for gauging the most popular languages with these criteira: 1. The most highly demanded skills in the Freelance world: https://www.elance.com/trends/skills-in-demand/it-programming#TopSkills 2. The language/technology for which maximum programming problems are being asksed/discussed: http://stackoverflow.com/tags The first one suggests PHP and the second suggests Java, so I'm inclined to think of these two languages as currently most popular.
I think the answer you're most likely to get for a question like, "can you explain your system design?" is "yes, but not to you. I am under NDA and can't talk about it outside of my company." Sure there will be a few people working on open source or non-NDA'd work, but they will be few and far between compared to those who are not allowed to talk about the internals of proprietary systems they work on.
Never said it is a silver bullet :) In fact, it tries not to be TooSmart. Anyway, to answer your question, ThreadDbSessionHolder holds any type of DbSession. Above line is from the DbThreadSession's code that actually stores itself, therefore the casting. This line should never appear outside of this class. Moreover, in Jodds app you never see db sessions anyway. Agree on naming, I always struggle with good names :) 
Size doesn't matter ;) That being said, lets see when it might matters. Java hosting providers have limited memory. Application built on common spring+hib+... stack usually takes more memory then provided in basic package (witnessed that few times). Moreover, source of 1.5 MB is easier to understand :) 
I'm not sure I agree. I personally like C++ better than any other language. Maybe due to the fact that it was my first. I can definitely see why some find it harder to learn though.
They're teaching C++ as a first language where I go to college and I think it's ridiculous. Putting the burden on first-timers to deal with C++'s quirks for things like memory at the same time as they're learning how to logically solve problems with computers is just too much IMO. So many things come up during lessons that have to be explained as "magic" because the core concepts C++ requires you to know when learning to code in it are often too much for beginners to CS. 
&gt;Java hosting providers have limited memory. Application built on common spring+hib+... stack usually takes more memory then provided in basic package (witnessed that few times). I'd choose host based on framework rather than framework based on host. At least for a commercial project. &gt;Moreover, source of 1.5 MB is easier to understand :) A lot easier than understanding the source code of spring of course. But I don't really have a need to understand the source. Naturally there are at times reasons to dig into it. The only reason I could come up with myself was the same reason which made me choose debian over fedora back in the days... it seemed less bloated. Thanks for sharing your point of view.
All good Portuguese universities do it. I learned Caml Light and Prolog back in the day. Nowadays Ocaml has replaced Caml Light. Others are doing Lisp, Scheme or Haskell as well. Living in Germany, from I know from German friends, some universities actually seem too heavy in theory with little practice. At least that I what I get from their experiences from Duisburg and Aachen universities.
When I learned Prolog back in the mid-90's, our Prolog CS classes were shared with the EE guys.
1. Where is JavaScript? 2. I'm a little concerned by two of the languages in the list for schools: Scratch and MATLAB. Scratch can be used to learn programming, but isn't useful outside of teaching concepts (I use Scratch to teach my elementary age kids). I would expect more out of a college level course. I looked into MATLAB a bit ago, and the licensing worries more than Microsoft licensing. Even with C#, the compiler can be obtained free of charge. Note: I have been asked, by a university dean, "what is the one language we can teach our students and be productive? (in one class)" That was 6 years ago. I told him there wasn't one. Today I might suggest JavaScript.
To me, I feel uncomfortable disclosing the parts of the design that I think are interesting and fun to talk about. In particular, I like discussing the flaws in a system and where our system falls short of our desires and expectations. Usually, there is some level of blame involved as well as issues involving the reputation of the company. The other part of the issue is about respect for the intellectual property of the company I just came from. They put in a lot of time and effort into building a working system and I wouldn't want to just willy nilly give away anything that a competitor could use. By sticking with high level discussions with theoretical situations, you can avoid all this. The cost would be that you lose any tangible association that would put context to these theoretical situations leaving these to be just ideas without much weight. To be fair though, I'm very much interested in the architecture of code so that's where I usually emphasize what I want out of interviews. I also think that is where many teams gain lots of technical debt and tend not to really ever pay it off. Many teams just live with it for a long time.
Specifically, an answer like "to be honest it doesnt happen very often, but until recently there was no failover" could potentially kill a company if it got out, depending on the market the company is in and what they advertise.
That's what I'm saying, it was my first language and I had zero knowledge of programming. The only kind of coding I had done was light html tweaking on web templates. 
+1 for intellij
You are likely hitting an error with the windows installer. See [this link](https://support.microsoft.com/kb/834484) for possible troubleshooting options. Are you using the default installation folder? Could try changing the folder to something like "C:\Java"
I do have to say that on my personal experience that avoid angular as much as possible. At first it seems so easy and code looks so clean but as project grows things gets really messy. Then u need to take care of many low level concepts such as apply, digest, watch etc. Which I consider overhead and becomes difficult to manage as project grows. On top of that many angular controls provided by their library named angular ui are either not working or breaking the code. 
The implication in your past post was to discuss the benefits of code refactoring at the byte level. I don't see any advantage to this since Java is specifically designed to be an easier to grok language. If a code change was purely to improve readability, it could have 0 benefits in the actual byte code, and in fact might make it worse. If it was to improve performance, this can easily be explained using big O notation. Understanding byte code is great, and I would love to hear a story where a bottle neck was discovered at this level, however I havn't run into a single instance in my career where this has occured. Usually bottle necks come from using the wrong data structure or having a poorly designed algorithm.
Those numbers look suspicious. In all cases they are spiking and dropping. On the one hand I am curious what caused them to drop (i.e. what is taking their place), but on the other it just looks like everything is so low in percent. I agree that functional methods are becoming popular, but I don't see it with language selection. I see languages picking up things like Lambdas, and higher order functions.
You want the x86 bundle :) http://puu.sh/cUgXZ/81f2dc7916.png
Agree... the 1.5MB number here is more a statement of being lightweight ;) In other words, Jodd is not trying to solve all the problems. Its microframeworks solves certain problems and stays inside these boundaries. We are trying to run away from that big, fat enterprise picture of EE, so java can be used for eg startups etc. And there is one more nice thing - the redeployment is very fast, even on bigger projects.
I don't agree. While I hate the silly self posts about someone who can't install some version of the JDK for whatever silly reason, I think blogs about new releases are an important part of the blogosphere. If those would be banned here, we'd pretty end up with seeing only posts about poor people who can't install a JDK. I don't think we want that, do we?
I understand what you are saying. All of those things are nice. But that's also exactly what they are, _nice_ to have. Don't get me wrong I used to program assembly so I hate to waste ram and I do appreciate a (somewhat) trimmed down OS. But now a days my laptop has an SSD and features a bunch of ram so none of the above has much of an effect on me. I'm actually running Spring on a Tomcat server behind a Nginx server... along with a Postgresql database on a little box of mine with 512 MB ram and about 1,2 Mhz (if I recall) CPU. Redeployment is not fast! But everything works just fine. So it's not that bad :)
http://jaxenter.com/
I disagree with the premise that other ways of achieving this sort of thing require duplicating code. (But it would be nice if java had an easy way to make delegates.) And then there's the rigmarole of setting up IDE support, which may be fine if you're programming solo, but could be an unwelcome distraction to maintain in a team situation. @Async is cool, I made a lib (at work unfortunately, but making a case to open source it) that implements actors with a similar sort of natural API, without any bytecode manipulation. I've yet to see AOP that isn't weaving for weaving's sake. 
This is on my todo list. I want to take the time to write a decent critique, not a half-assed one (no-assed is covered above).
Spammer detected.
&gt; Creating objects and instance using new keyword is known as static class loading. The retrieval of class definition and instantiation of the object is done at compile time. All classes are loaded dynamically in a Java virtual machine: While the Java compiler (javac) does some amount of static type checking, it will not embed more information about the class the new statement is referring to than the fully qualified name. This name will be resolved and linked when the JVM loads your class. Also no allocation ever happens at compile time. This means that even with a new statement, a variety of exceptions can be thrown at runtime (the target class may not be found, the constructor that was used at compiler time may be gone etc.). This kind of things happen for example if your class and the class you are using have not been compiled at the same time.
It's *RuntimeException*, not *RunTimeExpception*. Also why is IOException listed in this graph? There's nothing special about it. Listing it together with all other *special* exceptiontypes has the potential to sustainably confuse beginners.
Ok, so what in this rather short list new items in the release jetty-9.2.5.v20141112 - 12 November 2014 + 448446 org.eclipse.jetty.start.Main create classloader duplicate + 449594 Handle ArrayTrie overflow with false return + 449811 handle unquoted etags when gzipping + 450467 Integer overflow in Session expiry calculation in MongoSessionManager + 450483 Missing parameterization of etc/jetty-deploy.xml. + 450484 Missing parameterization of etc/jetty-http[s].xml. + 450855 GzipFilter MIGHT_COMPRESS exception + 450873 Disable tests that downcaste wrapped GzipFilterResponses + 450894 jetty.sh does not delete JETTY_STATE at start is this actually newsworthy ? Here's my thinking. There are releases, and then there are releases. Let's take Jetty. In 2006, there was a major release (version 6 ) of jetty which enabled async support via NIO. This was newsworthy. The features in this release meant the performance of jetty based java servers improved significantly in several areas. Enough, in fact, to change the way systems were architected. This is newsworthy! Fixing an integer overflow bug may be really important to the people who experience it, it's not news worthy on the same level as a release like Jetty 6. Much like a car crash is really critical to the people who experience it, it's not national news. 
It's that it's nice to have type checking and reduced risk of injection vulnerabilities
If it can be done, it shouldn't. Just let the end user deal with making sure they have the right version, and maybe provide a link to the Java website. I've never seen a Java application come with a copy of the JRE, just a warning to use a specific version or above.
Those 3 extra method calls aren't important, and unless they are part of inner loop code, will not contribute to any performance impact. You continue to disregard my point about readability, as you're less efficient method is more readable, and if you want to explicitly write more efficient code, do it in the standard way using a StringBuilder instead of resorting to a gimmick that many Java developers will not know is equivalent. There is no reason to take this to a personal matter, since you know nothing about my coding experience.
`Disc` is subclassed by `RedDisc` and `YellowDisc` for example?
A disassembler has more uses than optimization; it can help you understand code generation -- an understanding that leads to better practices and better code. This has been true since the first high level language came into existence. Sorry to repeat myself, but if you never run a disassembler, you're almost certainly taking advice (via books, talks, etc) from someone who is using one. It really is the "teach a man to fish" argument. Advising the OP to simply decide/state that his code is "more readable", which is in itself a qualitative assessment, is setting him up to lose any argument he may/may-not decide to have. 
This isn't what your looking for, but a couple days ago I ran across something called jhipster. It's a yeoman generator(nodejs) that spits out a complete Spring Boot / AngularJS application. Since it has an embedded server and H2 database option you can start it up from the command prompt right out of the box.
Python is the future for web development (especially microframeworks like [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) that can be extended and made so much more complex; /r/flask exists too) but Java frameworks can work well too because it can do web apps and efficient desktop apps. However, I have been unable to find anything like Flask with Java. The best I can do is create REST services in Java then mix different technologies. Python is also the future for mobile apps too, with Kivy to create UIs and wonderful mobile apps. It is basically cancer to attempt android apps with java. If I had to start from scratch, I would have avoided to learn C#/.NET, and focused on Java and Python. Nothing else is needed, not even the JVM languages. I would also focus my attention on javascript frameworks that are newer, there's always something cool and new. jQuery is a must. I found some new things like knockout.js for creating your front end binds. AngularJS &amp; node.js also popular to learn for chat apps. 
Well the end user has 1.6 installed along side 1.7 and the JNLP specifies 1.6*. Last week we had 1.7_51 and when launching WebStart it recognized that 1.6 was installed. With 1.7_51 it just reports that it cannot find 1.6.
Come over to /r/Linux and never deal with this nonsense again. sudo yum install java-1.7.0-openjdk-devel Done.
Wow, nailed it.
There are ways for java software to install java on a client machine if they do not have it already. It does not pop up with the Ask Toolbar shit. A lot of professional software uses methods like these.
What do you have so far? Might also want to try /r/javahelp 
Let's hear about these modern languages. And given that there is call for programmers who can write COBOL and FORTRAN still I would say Java is going to be around a long time.
To be fair, Sun signed the Ask deal, Oracle has just kept it up. And what modern language are you taking about, because I bet I could give you a reason why you shouldn't learn that one than you've given not to learn Java.
This actually bothers me quite a bit, because it goes far deeper than just simply being annoying and packaging crappy adware in with the runtime. It turns programmers off Java before they ever actually even learn to program. That mental association of `Java == Bloatware` is something that can't be undone easily. 
&gt; although lets be real no one makes client side java apps Client side *Applets* at that. The ASK toolbar gets installed with the Java browser plugin. 
And I haven't seen "a lot" of "professional" software written in C#, it's always some useless and overengineered (or overframeworked?) shit.
Are you using OS X? If so, this sounds like a known bug in Oracle's Java on OS X with JFrames with resizable set to false. More info - and a workaround - here: https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8032595 
Spark does templating. Freemarker, Velocity or Mustache.
Spring has a view mechanism that can map to any template engine or no template engine if you're building a rest service. Setting up views with jsp is dead simple. Beans are not involved. Flask is actually the same it just has some built-in hooks for jinja. Spring Boot is a canned spring config for quick bootstrapping. Otherwise Spark is a good option.
Java EE these days is pretty much convention over configuration as well ;)
Start small by just creating a TaxReturn class that has all of the member variables you mention - name, social sec #, etc. Then compile that and make sure it compiles before you add a lot of other code. Don't wait until you have a huge program before you try to compile it, you can test it a little at a time as you go. Then add some methods a little at a time that do simple things, like getting user input , printing it and nothing else. Then expand it slowly to do more complex things like use StringBuilder and do calculations. 
This guy is commited to his autism.
Not to mention spring doesn't require xml anymore and can be done with annotations - somewhat similarly to how flask works. Spring boot in gradle is pretty darn quick to get up.
Never? I have used **today** SOAP-UI ships with its own private JRE and WebLogic, which ships with a private JDK. One of the main use cases in jigsaw is to be able to ship tiny JREs and make Java stuff work out-of-the-box, and those concerns were part of javaws design, part of izpack, install4j and obviously excelsior jet. There are a lot of people shipping private JREs in one way or another. OP, javaws has a [configuration file](http://www.oracle.com/us/technologies/java/installguide-137230.html) and [a registry key](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/runtime-windows-137915.html), are you sure they are pointing to the right JREs?
Man, that's an obnoxious requirement. I think your solution is elegant and using inheritance is not appropriate here for the actual game play. However you might be able to include it in some of the UI elements. You'll probably have some buttons to control the game play, and you can have those inherit from the same type.
http://www.indeed.com/jobtrends?q=Scala%2C+Java%2C+Ruby%2C+JavaScript%2C+C%23%2C+Clojure%2C+Haskell&amp;l=
Not really "explained" so much as "demonstrated". To explain it would be to describe the mechanisms in the dark depths of the JVM. Having already seen how to use proxies, I was really interested to read how they're actually implemented =/
So I assume you would need to use a distributed cache in place of cachedNamesMap if the application is horizontally scaled and load balanced?
Although I'm still trying to figure out the setup they did with the grab all classes and save everything method which confuses me even more
Inheritance? Would a class that extends JPanel, to use for your contentPane on a JFrame, meet this requirement? ;)
This is a very basic error. Look it up on Google and see what is suggested to do. Hint, your lwjglapplication class is not on the classpath. You must make sure all your libgdx jars are added to your project's classpath. Check out the project options. 
An array is ordered and can have duplicate data. A set is unordered and has no duplicates.
If it's unordered how do you access data in a Set? (an array obviously has indexes)
if you just calling .printStackTrace(), the stack is not printed in cause exceptions where the stack begins to duplicate itself from the original exception.
This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit. - [/r/programming] [Roadblock in Learning a Programming Language](http://np.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/2mmwpc/roadblock_in_learning_a_programming_language/) *^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)* 
omg, it's also magic that I actually found your post just in the right moment I needed something like this, thanks for sharing =)
your right, i need to find a project to do and learn how to do it.
what is Scala and marven used for?
Maven is an advanced build tool, and Scala is another language that can be compiled and run on the Java Virtual Machine :) Further reading on Maven: http://maven.apache.org r/scala is your friend for Scala-related musings
I'm pretty impressed that you don't need a default constructor. This seems to be a limitation for most serialization libraries. Is it because Class#newInstance requires a default constructor? I haven't ever really tested that out. 
&gt; Can you convert a Set to an Array? Yes - just use toArray(). Same goes for any class that implements Collection https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Set.html
Just wait for jasonb
Sometimes JVM can optimize out the exception stacktrace, try running the jvm with the: -XX:-OmitStackTraceInFastThrow argument. Also, are you sure that ServiceException properly passes the exception to super()?
Gson has not required a default constructor to deserialize for a few years now.
Wow, 3 years as a Java dev, and you don't know your Swiss army knife? (Set, Map, List; HashSet, TreeSet, HashMap, TreeMap, LinkedHashMap, ArrayList; Collections.sort(), Collections.shuffle(), [probably forgot a few]) I'm not mocking you, I'm trying to give you perspective so that you can course-correct.
+1 for [Play](https://playframework.com) 
I recently had to reflectively call methods using the invoke() method from class Method. When doing this, if the invoked method throws an exception, it is wrapped in java.lang.reflect.InvocationTargetException. I clearly remember having to unwrap this exception with getCause() in order to get the "real" exception behind this. Therefore, I'm not too surprised by the problem you are stating. Are you sure it used to behave like that in this exact case ?
The trick they use is to get access to [sun.misc.Unsafe](http://java.dzone.com/articles/understanding-sunmiscunsafe) and use allocateInstance()
Lol, thanks. I'll check those out. All I use that I can see that you've mentioned are HashMap and ArrayList..
So it's annotation less xml marshalling/unmarshalling?
Set, Map, List are the *interfaces* for the implementations I named. You typically declare your variables with these, then assign the actual implementation you want, to keep things as compatible/open as possible. TreeMap keeps its entries sorted by the natural order ("... implements Comparable") of the keys, in case you iterate over the entries. LinkedHashMap keeps its entries in the order they had been created. (I forgot to mention LinkedHashSet.) The Sets are kinda the same, except they only have values, not keys, and each value can only occur once. Useful e.g. if you want to keep track of which key is currently down, which is important if you want to prevent key autorepeat in games, because the keyPressed method does not distinguish between autorepeat and legitimate key-press. Btw., I just made me a LinkedHashMap variant that, with some calculation overhead, allows to deal with the map via index numbers. It's not quite the optimal implementation, but it does the trick. Doesn't belong to the very topic you posted, but otherwise fits the content of this page. final public static class IndexedHashMap&lt;K, V&gt; extends LinkedHashMap&lt;K, V&gt; { final public int indexOf(final K key) { int ret = 0; for (final K k : this.keySet()) { if (equalsEvenIfNull(k, key)) { return ret; } ret++; } return -1; } final public V getByIndex(final int index) { int i = 0; for (final V v : this.values()) { if (i == index) { return v; } i++; } return null; } final public K getKeyByIndex(final int index) { int i = 0; for (final K k : this.keySet()) { if (i == index) { return k; } i++; } return null; } final public V putByIndex(final int index, final V value) { int i = 0; for (final Map.Entry&lt;K, V&gt; entry : this.entrySet()) { if (i == index) { final V ret = entry.getValue(); entry.setValue(value); return ret; } i++; } return null; } } final public static boolean equalsEvenIfNull(final Object v1, final Object v2) { return (v1 != null &amp;&amp; v1.equals(v2)) || (v2 != null &amp;&amp; v2.equals(v1)) || (v1 == null &amp;&amp; v2 == null); } 
There are about a dozen things that could cause this in a JVM based application. I see that you are using libGDX, did you generate you project using the recommended gdx-setup.jar? Did you install the Gradle plugin and import the project as a Gradle project as indicated in the [wiki](https://github.com/libgdx/libgdx/wiki/Gradle-and-Eclipse)?
That being said, java is not as good as many other languages out there for beginner projects. I love java, but it strengths does not lie in what a beginner usually needs. Gui programming in java is a nightmare. Front end web programming has been overtaken by other technologies and languages. C# will let you get to a decent result much faster if you want to do a small program by yourself.
I think it is explained. After reading this article, my understanding of the JDK Dynamic Proxies is not abstract anymore. I know what happens when a proxy is executed, I know how to implement a proxy. JVM Mechanisms are not relevant because different JVMs means different mechanism implementations, and probably because the proxies are POJOs
Does ServiceException(Throwbale) invokes the Exception constructor with the Throwable argument? Because this is where the stack trace is set.
Why would I use this instead of JAXB ?
Did you read the oracle tutorial before posting here? https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/interfaces/set.html
Dumb question. Is this supposed to be used like a database? Could it be used as a flat file server type setup on a network for about 5-10 users?
This allows you to take Java Objects and create XML documents that describe the objects.
This is probably the easiest way to force inheritance in a project like this, if you are required to create new classes with inheritance.
Oldie but goldie :)
Just be aware that due to their extensive of reflection and sun.misc.Unsafe, they are vulnerable to remote code execution. You should thus only use it on XML you have full control on.
 try { something(); } catch (SomeException e) { throw new ServiceException(e.getMessage(), e); }
&gt; Does ServiceException(Throwbale) invokes the Exception constructor with the Throwable argument? Yes. --- I tried the code now at home with Java 8, and it is including cause in the stack trace: public class Main { public static void main(String[] args) { Main m = new Main(); try { m.doSomething(); } catch (Exception e) { e.printStackTrace(); } } public void doSomething() throws Exception { try { something(); } catch (SomeException e) { throw new Exception(e); } } public void something() throws SomeException { throw new SomeException("Something went south"); } } class SomeException extends Exception { public SomeException(String message) { super(message); } } This prints: java.lang.Exception: SomeException: Something went south at Main.doSomething(Main.java:16) at Main.main(Main.java:6) Caused by: SomeException: Something went south at Main.something(Main.java:21) at Main.doSomething(Main.java:14) ... 1 more At work, we are using Java 7 (will find the exact version tomorrow), inside an OSGi container, and we log the exceptions using SL4J. I have to dig in a little bit deeper. Obviously something should be wrong with our configuration or the version of JVM we are using otherwise everything is fine and dandy with Java 1.8.0.25.
&gt; ...and we log the exceptions using SL4J. Is your slf4j implementation possibly truncating/trimming the stacktrace it's printing? What happens if you call printStacktrace(); on the caught exception?
+2 for Play!
Not as much as Play!
I remember reading a post by someone who stated that you are only able to estimate tasks that take about 4 hours. Any task that you are estimating above that should probably be divided into sub tasks and any task estimated to under 4 hour will probably take close to 4 hours anyway unless they are proper "5 minute tasks". I have tried this a few times in practice and it actually works pretty well, mainly because when you start splitting stuff into 4 hour tasks you starting thinking through what parts are involved in solving the problem at the same time and you might catch a few "gotchas" in the process. Source: http://coding.abel.nu/2012/06/programmer-time-translation-table/
This choice was made long ago in a galaxy far away, this is on a large established system.
Have you done a project with it? I'm curious what benefit it has over Freemarker aside from the fact that it's maintained by SpringSource. It seems to have fewer features.
Another faster option is to use Google Protocol Buffers https://github.com/google/protobuf but I'm with you, don't use Java Serialization
I haven't used JavaFX has a browser plugin as I think you did. In my opinion, creating content using plugin technology like Flash, Silverlight etc is a pretty bad idea these days. However, using JavaFX on the desktop has proved to be pretty pleasant experience. Did it crash when you were making desktop apps?
I want to emphasize that you [shouldn't do this](http://books.google.com/books?id=ka2VUBqHiWkC&amp;lpg=PA312&amp;ots=yZDlLgp6N0&amp;dq=effective%20java%20joshua%20bloch%20serialization&amp;pg=PA289#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false). Use google protobufs, avro, xml, json, thrift... whatever instead. Personally I recommend avro.
Sure thing! Since you're asking for homework help, who am I to say no. It's not like you're supposed to do your own damn homework! So here goes: 1. Create a 2d array 1. Loop over the array and prompt the user for each state 1. Ask for the name of the capital 1. Compare the answer to the input 1. Tally up the correct answers as you go Hope that helps! Now do your own damn homework. 
yes, here is a list of rules: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/platform/serialization/spec/version.html#6678 as other commenters have noted, just about any other serialization mechanism is easier to get right and less of a headache down the line.
6. Wonder if a Map&lt;String, String&gt; would be a better choice. 
One way to think of this 2d array is to think of it as multiple arrays stacked up. So what you're going to need is a 50 x 2 array. One set is going to have your States, the second set has your Capitals. A 20s search will show you how to make a 2d array in java and specify the size http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12231453/creating-two-dimensional-array So now you have your array built. now you have to initialize it. If you look in the link it will show you how to do that with curly bracket notation, or you can do it one by one. In order to access the array you use array[x][y] = z where x is your row number and y is your column number. So now you have a 2d array full of data. Then you do your promt and get your input. Your best bet here is to loop through your 2d array. By doing that you'll get the current state that your on and if you go to the next row, then you'll get the capital for that state. Compare that with the user input and increment a counter if it is the same. One thing to consider is if the user input is supposed to be case sensitive or not. Good luck.
I have been working on it for several days, should i include the code i have?
I doubt it has been taught yet if they are doing this.
it only executes the loop once, which is shouldnt. should i be using a nested for loop?
ASK YOUR DAMN TEACHER Why are students so afraid to talk to their teacher? It's what they're there for: to help you learn. 
So who is going to post an extremely complex round about solution for him to use and his teacher to later see?
Jackson still does though doesn't it? 
"Ok, you're going to need some chalk, 3 tallow candles, a bucket of goat's blood, and a computer. Then, [this](http://pastebin.com/jSaDgftp)."
Having gone through a bootcamp and transitioned into a job through it, I can confirm, talking to whoever knows more than you about something is **so** important.
What about like a web.xml? I thought there was also some sort of xml for configuring Spring. Yes the annotations are super useful. Decorators are my favorite part of Python development.
My teacher asked to see the photocopy of my homework, said it copied fine. His next suggestion was that perhaps English should be a prerequisite to his course. Your rage is based on the assumption that all teachers are interested in helping you learn.
1. What photocopy are we talking about? 2. If your teacher *actually* responded that way, report him. 
Yes. It's horrible so don't do it, but if you must. Make sure to use a serialversionuid you can also implement externalizable and add attributes to the serialisation writing and try catch on reading then default (Bringing back nightmares of 8 years ago)
Freemarker and mustache seem the same, which one should I learn more?
I still haven't yet understood what java EE provides that regular java sdk doesn't. Even this [diagram](https://netbeans.org/images_www/articles/73/javaee/ecommerce/intro/jdk-diagram.png) doesn't tell me much. I believe I have Java EE but I don't know the difference.
For those who don't know what Flask is, let me explain the advantages: - Flask uses jinja2 template engine. This engine can allow you to call functions/objects in your html file. - Flask manages sessions/http/cookies/URL-routing/requests/responses built on top of an HTTP library. - some convenient template functions built in to integrate with jinja2. - has json features in the api. - has extensions to manage and build forms and validation using a Python Class. (e.g. "email = EmailField(u'Email', [Required(), Email()], description=u"What's your email address?")") - has extensions to manage logins/sessions. - doesn't require much configuration. - uses decorators (annotations) to manage URL routing, GET/POST data. You can even create a REST api with an extension. - manages your static files. 
1. A photocopy of the homework assignment, that is how he distributed assignments. 2. I took it as far as documenting the occurrences of him being racist and sexist during class, getting my classmates to sign it, and taking it to the Dean of the College of Sciences. 0 fucks were given.
Dropwizard (with views) and Spark are your best options. http://dropwizard.io http://sparkjava.com/ 
Imo Freemarker has some amazing features: macros/functions and the ability to call [bean methods](http://freemarker.org/docs/pgui_misc_beanwrapper.html), ability to use tag libraries (such as [form:*](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/servlet/view/freemarker/FreeMarkerConfigurer.html)) and pretty good error messages. Mustache has the big advantage that you can really (and I mean really) easily work with it in javascript (you know for all those dynamic ajax calls that add form elements/content etc). 
Oh, spamming Vimeo clips, that's actually a new one.
First of all, this post belongs in /r/Javahelp rather than in /r/Java. The subreddit clearly states in the sidebar that it is about: &gt;**News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language** Second, "do my homework" posts are not welcome here and in /r/Javahelp. If you want help, + you create a proper post, + ask specific questions and + show the code you already have (without being asked for it). There is a direct proportion between the quality of your post and the help it will receive. Also - no effort shown, not much help given.
If you must serialize, In my opinion it is better to have total control over the serialization, instead of letting the default serialization do the work for you. You can't predict the future and you may have a few headaches down the road (especially if someone decides they MUST change the class somehow) Go with Externalizable so you can control what goes where, in what order, and how. You want this to be deterministic and future proof. It may suck to implement, BUT it won't come back to bite you in the ass later on.
I was just looking into Spark, it's spectacularly simple and elegant. And it comes with embedded stuff and a lot of built in functions. There appears to be so many choices, I don't know what to learn most.
That's what I was looking for macros and functions in the template. Even built-in filters. At the same time I really do want to use JSON and ajax/jquery stuff too so I'm a bit torn, but I'm hoping Freemarker can do that too. I also didn't like the Freemarker documentation. I don't know what bean methods are really.
True, but a new release is a new release. Some are more noteworthy, some are less. Based on that I don't see a reason to ban all posts about new releases. The submitter will have to make a judgement call. Is something newsworthy when at least 6 items are in a list? Or should it be a nice round number like 10? Or is 1 item with a power level of over 9000 sufficient? What about 2 items with a 5000 power level? I guess will never get to a perfect formula to objectively say what is and what isn't newsworthy. But should we? Why not let reddittors simply vote for a link? (Oh wait, Reddit already has that feature :P)
Freemarker is more powerful. The bonus to Mustache is that it's cross-platform. There are mustache interpreters for multiple languages including JavaScript and they can be evaluated in the browser.
Don't get me wrong. I like Spark. A lot. The problem is, with most Sinatra frameworks, in Unit testing. Testing the controllers in isolation (without making actual HTTP requests) is a huge chore. With dependency injection frameworks (especially lightweight ones like VRaptor), it's quite simple to mock up your controller tests by simply registering alternative dependency providers. It's not just about mocking the requests, but every other part of the system, as well.
&gt; Will Jackson still be used once Java 9 has built in JSON support? Yes. Jackson has tons of features that Java 9 won't have. &gt;And since Maven is the defacto standard for build tools, will the natural progression be to upgrade Maven with JSON instead of XML? I highly doubt it. It'd be a lot of effort for no real advantage.
Maven is so entrenched, I think it's definitely worth learning. Once you know Maven, using Gradle will be easy. If Gradle is to become enterprise standard, I think that will be many years from now. I believe it's use is growing though! You'll want the m2e plugin in Eclipse. To play around, import any Maven project (Import --&gt; Maven Project) and play around. You could try git cloning my [XChart](https://github.com/timmolter/XChart) project and importing that. It's a multi-module Maven project though, so slightly more complicated. I usually transition to the command line when doing actual building such as 'mvn package'. 
So it doesn't have the sort of thing that Flask has where it allows you to test everything as a "Test_client()" rather than the full app. 
I would recommend against Eclipse if you need Maven. Try IntelliJ or Netbeans for a lot better Maven support, no plugins required, good multi modules support etc
If you specify one or more constructors that take parameters AND you do NOT specify an empty parameter constructor, you MUST specify parameters to fulfil the contract of one of the constructors (it is the same with calling a method that takes params, if you do not provide params when calling it- it will simply be like "wot u on?"). So no the results are not the same. Why specify an empty constructor AND specify constructors with parameters? That is up to you. If you can make a "Worker" object without specifying information OR with specifying information, that is a situation where it is beneficial to support both an empty parameter constructor and constructor(s) with parameters.
&gt; Thanks! Do you think Gradle going to become enterprise standard or is it still worth learning Maven now? Both Spring and Hibernate have switched over to Gradle, if that counts for anything.
It's perfectly legitimate, and occasionally even correct, to NOT have a parameter-less constructor. For example if you want to ensure that people using your class ( including perhaps yourself) ALWAYS initialize the values, then create ONLY a constructor with parameters. In fact, also check to make sure all the values are appropriate, and throw something like IllegalArgumentException("you can have the name start with 'foo' "); if they're not. That said, there are also some systems where a parameterless constructor is necessary. This is because some automated system will create the object and then use reflection to populate the fields. Hibernate and it's ilk come to mind as having this requirement. Finally, if you specify NO constructors, you inherit the parameterless constructor from Object (or you inherit the set of constructors from the super class). Once you add ANY constructor in your class, then you inherit none of the constructors from Object or a superclass. worth reading: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1644317/java-constructor-inheritance 
I almost completely skipped Maven for Gradle, it's pretty great. 
not necessarily - see https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-module-parameter-names
The whole point of Unit testing is to avoid "testing everything". There's a module for Flask called Flask-Testing that aids with this, but it's still a little annoying to use, as it's still testing the full stack of your application to test each component. Ideally, the only part of your app that's really being used is the part you're testing. Dependency injection frameworks make this very sane to do.
Maven is not completely declarative, since it involves more than XML. I have to write plugins for anything more complicated than what can be declared with XML and not offered by other plugins.
if you are running spring you can use @Scheduled annotation http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/scheduling.html#scheduling-annotation-support-scheduled 
No I'm not using spring. Thanks anyways :)
Is the webapp running in some form of Windows Service? Typically those cannot access network shares that easily. If this is the case, set the service to run as a user which can access the share without any further prompting (generally the same user/password combo on the server which is serving the share). Alternately, you could have the code shell out to the "NET USE" series of commands to authenticate the process to the windows share with a (securely) stored set of credentials which can run once before access to the share is needed. I have some experience in this particular area from Tomcat/Glassfish running in services in the past, so if I missed anything or you need more detail please ask!
What are the security permissions and share permissions on the network share? You can see these by logging on to the server, right clicking on the shared folder and going to Properties, then the Sharing and Security tabs. Which user is the application running as? What is the error message you're seeing? Is there are reason you are using `share$` instead of just `\\SERVERNAME\ShareName`?
&gt; This is the default constructor No it's not. The `default constructor` is the constructor that the compiler will insert into your class if *you don't specify any constructor yourself*. In /u/Ican-read's case it's just a normal "no-arg" constructor (and there's also the second one with parameters). It's not a default-constructor because it's written by the programmer herself, and also it's just one of two constructors that happen to be in the class. [Reference](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/constructors.html).
We use both here (location undisclosed) and the Maven project files are always about 5x larger than the equivalent Gradle files. And don't get me started on the crazy parent pom pulled from maven pattern that gets used for shared prototyping. Multi-language builds are much easier to manage with Gradle. We manage java, groovy and node.js code bases in the same multiproject without problems. Gradle files are shorter and more concise for simple projects and also substantially simpler when your projects contain specialized one-off needs like pulling the output of a javascript program as a cross project resource dependency. Maven is a nightmare compared to gradle at every given project complexity level and I cannot see why anyone uses it.
So you want a cron like scheduler, but you don't want to use any of the most popular project and you don't want to use cron4j because its too much like cron. Right.
Who uses tomcat anymore? If you can run tomcat you can run 10 nettys
Sorry if it sounds ill-put together. I'm looking for advice, not necessarily looking to be told I did well. I don't want to use quartz/obsidian/spring as they're much too large/complex for what I'm in need of. I need a simplistic time-based scheduler. I haven't rolled out cron4j although I find it a little unnecessary to have a complex string-based way of defining the scheduling opposed to say a decimal (float/double) or integer parameter that defines an interval.
The scheduler thing really depends on where you are deploying, microservices, servlet containers or full blown JavaEE App Servers. On the top of my head this is what would be on my list that you have not already mentioned: * Timer API in JSR-236, using the [commonj myFoo implementation](http://commonj.myfoo.de/) if your container doesn't provide one (I know some JavaEE 6 containers like [WebLogic have it](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E23943_01/web.1111/e13733/toc.htm)). * Java batch API in JSR-352 using an implementation like [JBeret](https://github.com/jberet/jsr352) or [Apache Batchee](https://batchee.incubator.apache.org) or whatever your container provides. Here Spring-batch is getting really popular, but there are alternative implementations available, so... * If you have access to a Java EE 6 server, the EJB3 spec in JSR-318 gives you access to the [Timer Service](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/6/tutorial/doc/bnboy.html). There are tutorials online where people do awesome things with a CDI context and this API. * Buy or reuse [Control-M](http://www.bmc.com/it-solutions/control-m.html) or [OESS](https://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1213/ess/index.html). * Suck it up and write my own stuff abusing the [standard timer API](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Timer.html) and/or [ScheduledExecutorService](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/ScheduledExecutorService.html)
I have never used any of those projects, so I am going to ask a question.... What "scheduling" facilities do they give you that a normal thread pool with scheduling capabilities would not provide?
Thanks for the reply! Edited my post to answer a couple questions regarding what is being used (Java 8, no EE, server-side deployment, not web-based). As for your suggestions, I'll be looking into each right now (can't use any EE though- out of my control). With the Timer API- I'm a little sceptical since I will need tasks/jobs (is there a difference in naming?), that can be long lasting, or short-lived (repeating, delayed, etc). As a result, I don't want to be making a thread per-task(as I've read somewhere, source unavailable, correct me if I'm wrong) as that can be expensive, and I'm unsure whether or not a single thread would be the most performant (would a cached thread pool be the best solution with having primarily short-lived tasks but also having some tasks that can be quite lengthy (no particular max length)).
The ability to simply go "take this runnable/task/callable/custom object, and run it once every 5s indefinitely until *cancelled*" with something as simple as (pseudo-code): int id = scheduler.scheduleSync(runnable, 5);. Now, would you want to draw up a system for that in *every* project?
You are insane, sir. Maven works great with Eclipse, with trivial effort.
Based on your requirements. I would recommend Quartz. It has the ability to do cron like scheduling and you don't need an EE server to run it. At our organization, we are using Quartz for all our scheduling needs.
How is that different from a scheduleAtFixedRate in a ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor? You can remove it from the scheduler when you no longer want it run.
Is there a TL/DW?
It is no different at the core. There are minor differences such as completion checks, pausing, resuming, etc. Although other libraries support more advanced executions such as executing at a very specific date and only executing at a very specific time, specific number of times, during a specific time-range. So yes I could solve my issue with what Java already provides. Although I would in the end continue to develop more and more features to which I'm attempting to prevent if it already exists. I'm trying to choose something for the long term and thus I need to consider my possibilities.
I don't think I understand what the problem you're trying to solve is, probably because I don't use any of the tools in your first paragraph. So please back up and explain what middleware does for you and how the existing solutions suck at that.
Interesting. I only ask because I work on my own threading library, so I like to know what functionality others need (it's built based off my needs, but I want to expand it so that others can find it useful for them too).
See previous post on definition - still getting the hang of reddit. How "existing solutions suck" could take dozens of pages but here is the summary - 1. Your can code in Java, C++ and several other languages. Threading, UI design pose no issues for you, but you cannot figure how to make a Mulesoft process loop through an XML document and call a web service in each iteration. You could code this up in 30 seconds, but hours of google, reading the doc and you cannot make the GUI do this. Are you stupid? No - its the tool. This SUCKS 2. Despite having written by hand Java clients which support digital signatures, encryption and handling X509 keystores, you cannot figure out what the middleware GUI wants you to enter into a 'configure security' dialog as all the input fields are empty text fields called 'New Property'. After some google fu you finally realized what is required and get it to work - 90 minutes later. This SUCKS. Happy to provide more examples - I have dozens more ;-)
Just tried and you're right. The example is broken. It's actually pretty trivial to just setup your own Freemarker rendering. The abstraction in Spark is pretty wrong. I might send him a pull request to fix it. A client-side approach is completely different, but if that suits your needs go nuts. XSLT is only for masochists. EDIT: So the broken part is that in the docs, you set the engine with a default configuration that doesn't even set the directory to load templates. The hello.ftl example is just an example file, but it won't even load it from src/test. This setup works if you place hello.ftl in the configured directory. public static void main(String[] args) { FreeMarkerEngine fme = new FreeMarkerEngine(); Configuration cfg = new Configuration(); try { cfg.setDirectoryForTemplateLoading(Paths.get("/path/to/templates").toFile()); } catch (IOException e) { throw new RuntimeException(e); } fme.setConfiguration(cfg); get("/hello", (request, response) -&gt; { Map&lt;String, Object&gt; attributes = new HashMap&lt;String, Object&gt;(); attributes.put("message", "Hello World!"); // The hello.ftl file is located in directory: // src/test/resources/spark/template/freemarker return new ModelAndView(attributes, "hello.ftl"); }, fme); } Any actual template exceptions get logged to console and should be pretty descriptive.
Yeah I could as-well, but like I said, I'm unsure what project's will need and thus would just end up continually expanding it.
Memory isn't a concern, more so remote updates but I've thought that over and it is no longer a concern. Also, I was incorrect in the size (AFAIK), I only need the quartz-x.x.x.jar correct? If so it's 600Kb.
Depends on what you mean by "get right". Java Object serialization is, big, heavy, and slow. However, it is the only serialization method I know that works with any sort of object structure and relational graph you can throw at it. Certainly, if you can avoid it, you shouldn't use it (IMO), however for those nasty icky cyclical object graphs containing objects without a zero arg constructor, Java serialization is the only method I've found which can reliably work. Of course, you should have shallow object graphs. You should annotate your objects so they can be serialized by your object serializer of choice. And for heavens sake, you should avoid cyclic object graphs at all costs. But if you are maintaining a system that did none of that, your only bet is often the Java serializer.
this is what i'm using: (but i'm not sure i need quartz-jobs) &lt;dependency&gt; &lt;groupId&gt;org.quartz-scheduler&lt;/groupId&gt; &lt;artifactId&gt;quartz&lt;/artifactId&gt; &lt;version&gt;${quartz.version}&lt;/version&gt; &lt;/dependency&gt; &lt;dependency&gt; &lt;groupId&gt;org.quartz-scheduler&lt;/groupId&gt; &lt;artifactId&gt;quartz-jobs&lt;/artifactId&gt; &lt;version&gt;${quartz.version}&lt;/version&gt; &lt;/dependency&gt; The version is 2.2.1 as you mentioned.
Fuck Eclipse. I'd rather use a text editor. 
Yes. BPEL is a not a bad starting point....but extract all gunk out of it.
Open up your IDE and make a project?
What are you even asking? 
Just going by your title: You can make a constructor explicitly private, e.g. for singletons or for inner classes that are only to be *used* by the public, but not to be instantiated.
&gt;I read somewhere this about Play, and it concerns me: &gt;&gt; Score: 3.5/5  While simple to get started, the two things that really keep Play from being really easy to use are the complete backward incompatibility between versions and the requiring Scala to use templates. Why does this concern you? The incompatibility between versions in the article you're referencing is talking about upgrading to 1.x to 2.x, which was a complete and utter re-architecture. This is a good thing and too much backwards compatibility at the cost of stunting growth is one of the major criticisms of a lot of things in the JVM world. There is some problems going from versions within 2.x, but it's not too bad and have been manageable in my experience so far. Plus, you're quoting an older blog. 2013 I think, but possibly 2012. You should read this year's blog post about the different frameworks: http://zeroturnaround.com/rebellabs/the-2014-decision-makers-guide-to-java-web-frameworks/ The Scala part is minimal. Plus... it's the template engine. You shouldn't be coding in your views anyway and if you're doing a restful app you won't have views. Other than that it's very similar to Razor and just simply leverages some of the more powerful parts of Scala. It's not overwhelming and like most template engines is designed with minimal coding ability in mind. https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.3.x/ScalaTemplates
Personally, I've found Gradle to be difficult to use. It's slow and not as robust as Maven. Sometimes builds just hang for no reason and with no explanation. Maven's POM file structure is based on a schema which can't be done with JSON (or Groovy for that matter) and makes it a lot harder to create an invalid configuration. That being said, I have a huge enterprise client right now that supports Gradle, but not Maven. Adoption patterns don't always follow logical paths.
The app is running from a windows service. It looks like the share has the security settings of uatwebapp1$ and uatwebapp2$ (the two hostnames of the tomcat instance). I will attempt to run the service under my username which has access to the share (im not exactly sure how you do this but guessing its not too tough to test). For a more permanent solution on this front can I setup the service to always use some user when the machine is restarted? I will test this out and get back to you, thanks for the help!
See above :) I am not using \\SERVNAME\sharename because its not available out there for security reasons probably. I had infrastructure setup the shares and I believe the did the $ share so that it was hidden. As for the message once I can get back on I will post it!
Just use sed. Or edlin :-)
JSF isn't as decoupled from the server, but it's a mature technology and is very stable/mature. Javascript frameworks like AngularJs are better for responsive design and have lots of cool features, but are not as stable. AngularJs today may not have support in the future or be around at all.
"It's a sorry carpenter who blames his tools for the poor quality of his work." Eclipse works great because I *make* it work great. 
Then go ahead, bright boy. I'm sure your employer will be really sympathetic to your inability to work with the most commonly used IDE on the planet.
You set the user the service is logging in as under the service's properties in the Services applet (Start-&gt;Run-&gt;services.msc). In the properties there's a tab called Log On. Once you set the user and save it, that service will always run as that user.
Open eclipse. File --&gt; New --&gt; Java Project When the project opens give it a name Right-mouse click on the src folder create a Java class.
I've used Quartz in a simulation engine. It's one of those API's that looks more complicated than it is... the basic create task and schedule it code is fairly simple. Things get a tad trickier if you bring JDBC and whatnot into it.
&gt; Maven's POM file structure is based on a schema which can't be done with JSON FWIW, [json schema](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04) 
of course they're bigger. XML sucks. and I said that. And yes, if you are very disciplined, you can keep the roll your own imperative stuff out of gradle. More power to you if your team are that disciplined!
On top of what everyone else has said, this is also helpful if you ever intend to extend this class as a subclass's constructor will default to calling its superclass's parameter-less constructor. 
The guide on the GLFW site is C, but is easily implemented in lwjgl3: http://www.glfw.org/docs/latest/quick.html It gives you a pretty good idea of how to set up a window and such. You could also look at the demos in the src/tests/org/lwjgl/demo folder in the project root!
I did look at GLFW a bit and it looks like the LWJGL version and the C version are basically the same so it should be easy. Thanks!
Try to use a Maven plugin that hasn't lifecycle support from Eclipse or an existing M2E plugin. Or one that generates Java code during the build.
So you write plugins for the Maven and Ant integrations? Can you please provide one for SableCC? Thanks.
Could you elaborate on how? I have tons of issues, for instance I have to manually run `mvn compile` to generate xmlbeans code very time my project configuration updates. I use the `mvn eclipse:eclipse` plugin, not M2E, if that matters.
Thanks zrnkv. Very good points. The only way I would say is that I limit the use cases and stick to it, and live with the downsides of that. Good food for thought, though.
omg that's true, at last. This deserves its own thread.
Thanks.
You could try the EJB timer service. Just add the @Schedule annotation to an EJB method to have it execute and predefined intervals. Uses cron syntax. http://www.adam-bien.com/roller/abien/entry/simplest_possible_ejb_3_16
If I had the choice of recurring anal lesions for 3 months, or having to use eclipse for 3 minutes....my ass would be a scabby prickly mess for three months....which incidentally, would still be more effective at integrating maven than eclipse.
Yes, because why the hell would I use something that doesn't work? 
I don't think they switched over to gradle, they just have their stuff in the gradle repo as well as maven.
The maven folks promised alot for maven 3.[01] polyglot, a better release plugin. That has not happened. Gradle development appears to be more active, tho having said that still seeing releases for maven plugins, not sure about core maven
I would suggest not running the java process itself as a long running process if possible. For all backend timed jobs I generally run them via http://jenkins-ci.org/. Its ridiculously easy. Make a main method and run it from jenkins. Jenkins keeps track of the n previous run logs so its simple to see what went wrong when. You can get email alerts when something fails. Click a button to rerun a job, and visibly see the status of all jobs. It can also be setup to distribute jobs across different machines. There is also a nice benefit of having a brand new JVM every time a job runs.
I guess someone beat me posting my own post :(
&gt; (Janswer = equations.getAnswer()) { The compile error is self explanatory. 
I'm using the antlr4 plugin which generates sources during the build and that works perfectly fine.
Ugh. Please don't. We actually removed this a while ago because of it's dependencies on external compilers in your build process. Getting our build process running on windows machines was a pain just because of protobuf. We removed it and moved to a custom serialization method because of this.
*lol* :P
Let me guess, Antlr4 has a M2E plugin, right? With SableCC I need to add extra source directories manually and run maven explicitly. 
Yup. And dunno. I never used SableCC but that seems more of an issue with that particular tool than an issue with Eclipse. 
There have been a few attempts at this, but nothing has gotten any traction. I've never seen any sort of JSON schema in the wild. JSON docs get unwieldy very fast since they don't support comments.
Yup. It's just that the person I was replying to said that spring and hibernate, both switched over from maven to gradle and the only reason I believe he said that was that they have options for managing your dependencies with Gradle. 
Eclipse cannot handle Maven plugins that don't provide M2E plugins, because Maven is not a first class plugin. It needs the M2E layer so that the internal data structures of the workspace and project natures are mapped to Maven plugins. Netbeans, for example, uses Ant and Maven as the project format, so they are first class citizens in the internal data structures without any need for extra plugins.
The github repo is labeled to use Kotlin too, so that's interesting. 
No maven? So i have to download the jars myself from some random website and our automated build scripts won't be able to handle it unless i setup a nexus server also? Sounds like the opposite of simple to me.
Real world java ee patterns is more or less a blog in form of a book and it's a little bit outdated. I would just recommend to read adam biens blog and watch some of his talks on his YouTube channel. 
I'll try to look for it thanks.
Right, so why not separate the logic from the request/responses and thus just use regular JUnit tests? If you're testing the request/responses then why not just logging? Sorry I may be misunderstanding what advantages you are seeing with the dependency framework you describe.
&gt; XSLT is only for masochists. That's what I said but my friend is such a fan...:( See because of the Freemarker crap docs, I couldn't find "cfg.setDirectoryForTemplateLoading" i think I have settled on the idea that there simply isn't a good template engine in Java. I'm just going to use jquery&amp;ajax&amp;data-bind frameworks like knockout.js or angular or something. I mean from what I've seen: Freemarker is kinda overcomplicated, old, a terrible syntax, and doesn't have good docs. Velocity is almost the same but older. Mustache is great but has no logic/controls/macros/partials. Thank you for the example code by the way. This will fix my example. I do hope you do the pull request, because otherwise the tutorials seem great. If he just added a bit more example of more options for templating then I think it would be amazing.
[Doc is right here](http://freemarker.org/docs/pgui_quickstart_createconfiguration.html). The Spark docs for Freemarker integration is lacking, but Freemarker is thoroughly documented. It's old because there hasn't been much innovation in templating in the last 5 years, but there are still regular patch releases.
"How to use a pre-obsoleted technology to replace JSF components" FTFY
Kotlin is used for the templates for code generation
I am trying to tackle this myself with my data integration framework [uniVocity](http://www.univocity.com). We are just starting, and currently it provides a solid architecture over which you can develop ETL processes quite easily. It really shines if you need to map data between different schemas/files, etc. you can create wrappers around data stores not yet supported natively by the framework too. Have a look on our API, some examples and a few projects on [our GitHub page](http://GitHub.com/uniVocity). Any feedback, good or bad, is appreciated. Edit: I don't agree with you that mappings between fields/documents should be done in a GUI. Firstly, it makes reuse impossible. Secondly, it removes any flexibility you get from using custom code through well defined interfaces and method callbacks. What if the value of a field has to be transformed by an EJB on your app server? How can you use some class which already provides the information you need? How can you express that through a GUI? Thirdly, it hinders maintenance and adaptability. What if your field names are not exactly the same in a production environment? Are you going to maintain a duplicate of two GUi states just to cater for a few name mistaches? Lastly, it's harder to track what changes were made over time. You'll probably won't keep the history of a binary file or weird text file with UI state and configs on your SCM. Edit 2: making this a FOOS project may be harder than you think, you'll need people to join you on this initiative. Or, you'll have to charge money to make this happen. I tried to develop my own thing on my free time, and it proved to be extremely hard. You need more than a couple of hours a day to make sound architectural decisions. You need to build something solid and very well thought from the ground up otherwise it won't be reliable and fast enough
Intellij erryday! I kinda enjoy having an IDE that cooperates and does exactly what I tell it to. Plus, if someone is paying me 85K+, why the hell wouldn't I have access to the best damn polyglot IDE in existence? 
Well, if you're breaking the actual controller logic out of the controllers, then it's really a simple matter of taste in code. I like code to be very "flat". I should be able to suss out the nature of the controller's operations from the controller class itself. Being able to separate the concerns of being a controller through a dependency injection framework allows me to do this, and still test the controller's behavior in isolation. It also means that the way to test my models and views in isolation is already decided for me, and "fits" into the organization of my tests, as they're simply dependencies supplied by the DI framework. I end up with one way to Unit test everything, essentially. This is, again, simply a matter of taste.
Lot's of companies. You can't just decide to switch over, these things can take years.
It depends on what "the job" is since there are wildly different levels of complexity for various software projects. It also depends on your own aptitudes with regards to programming, and if you have never before had any inclination to learn it then it may not be for you. Then again, maybe you're a natural who just never got a chance to try. So if you do get this chance, and if your employer is willing to foot the bill in order to train his existing employees, then by all means, jump at this rare opportunity!
Oh I know I worked for one. But they won't be deploying to cell phones
Middle East Technical University used to teach Scheme for the first language though I heard they changed it to Python lately. Then they go C, then C++ for object oriented programming. 
Middleware is mostly not about code. Its about mapping 'id' to 'customer_id', appending a zero to a field - things like that. The vast majority of the work is data related, not code related. So yes, if you want to use library X, just go and get it. Since you will be doing this once in a blue moon. Most integration 'developers' do not use or know Maven - its a different skillset. The key issue is that integration is 99% mapping and simple transformations. If you are writing a lot of code, then either your tool is bad or its not integration. Most commercial tools ship with a stack of functions, so you can install it,do your work and deploy without ever seeing a jar file.
Look at this beauty: @Table(name = "MOVIE_ENTITY_GRAPH") @NamedQueries({ @NamedQuery(name = "Movie.findAll", query = "SELECT m FROM Movie m") }) @NamedEntityGraphs({ @NamedEntityGraph( name = "movieWithActors", attributeNodes = { @NamedAttributeNode("movieActors") } ), @NamedEntityGraph( name = "movieWithActorsAndAwards", attributeNodes = { @NamedAttributeNode(value = "movieActors", subgraph = "movieActorsGraph") }, subgraphs = { @NamedSubgraph( name = "movieActorsGraph", attributeNodes = { @NamedAttributeNode("movieActorAwards") } ) } ) }) Aren't I glad I don't have to write tedious SQL any more? Good article, though
download netbeans and practice using java.... if the course is free you'd be stupid not to take it.
Depends on if they get to be paid while taking the course or not. Because a reduction in pay or abig increase in workload might not be worth it unless OP is seriously planning to pursue it as a career. 
I agree, this does seem dangerous. You should perhaps consider raising these points with your boss. 20 weeks for your average office worker is woefully inadequate to replace actual contracted software engineers for anything business critical.
Most programing bootcamps are only 8-12 weeks, so 20 weeks could be enough to learn Java. 
"Depends." If you *want* to become a programmer, this is a perfect opportunity (I mean, paid to learn? awesome). If you *enjoy* technical stuff then you will find the learning easy and it'll be rewarding. The major, warning-lights caveat is that *after* the programme is over you will probably be expected to do the job that the external contractors did. The boss will want his investment back right? Your daily work will completely change, and if you're only sort-of interested you may not find it to your liking. tldr: think hard on what you want your job to become.
In all honesty, 20 weeks may be good enough to get a grasp on the language. Although it is **definitely** not good enough to get a *highly knowledgeable* grasp on it. Learning different aspects of the language (post-learning the basics such as syntax), learning OOP, design patterns, Java's APIs &amp; frameworks/third-party APIs &amp; frameworks (how to make as well), inheritence, encapsulation, EE, familiarizing yourself with the JVM, bytecode (no-where near necessary today, but highly valuable if you want to understand the language more and in certain cases) networking, databases, so on and so on. These are just a few examples off the pile of shit you can learn (not to mention *master*). Now, the above was written quickly and not well thought out or explained, as a result- there is no order in terms of difficulty or practicality etc. Nor is it meant to discourage. Although my post is meant to help answer the biggest question you asked... &gt; How longer after would it take for me to be able to realistically compete with other applicants in the wider world for a Java dev job? **Answer:** * Effort * Time * Amount of focus put into effort during said time * Resources available and resources that were made use of (including documents, articles, examples, projects, snippets, developers, videos, talks, etc etc) There would be no *set-in-stone* amount of time. It is (very much developer-esque) a *variable*. This variable would be effected, it is the *dependent* in this situation. This variable that represents `n` time, is simply *dependent* on the above (and most likely more) factors. It is not simply decided or calculated (unless possibly roughly after the fact), but is merely there to sort of help you understand that you will not have a date in which you can say I am a master (there is not best, there is no elite- you can master something after a *long* time and a *lot* of effort, but you will need to continue to work at it after the fact because it is an ever-evolving language (I hope)). Although as you asked, it is more a question of being able to compete? Well- that also once again depends on who you compete with. Hobbyists, enterprise, indie, etc- but even still you can't necessarily gauge their skill based off that, but rather some of their skills and knowledge are a result of wanting/being employed by someone/something that requires said knowledge/skills. **tl;dr** Put effort, time, focus (ie: focus during the time you put effort in for maximum effect/efficiency), and you will just- *find out*. 
this sounds like a maintenance nightmare
What did you study for originally? 
How are you loading and interpreting this property file? If you're simply loading it using something like PropertyUtils and then referencing that value directly in call to say "new File(settinglocation)" ... then it's not going to work. I would create a WEB-INF/classes/xml folder and move settings.xml there. Then set the property settinglocation to xml/settings.xml and use getClass().getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("WEB-INF/classes/"+settinglocation) That should load the file.
Interesting project. Some of the 'learn more' univocity links don't work? temporary outage? I stand by my mapping in GUI decision though. If you store the mapping in some human readable form, they can be versioned. I agree that a mechanism to save mappings and reuse is critical.
First, absolutely go for it. If you are interested in programming, it sounds like a perfect way to learn. Getting paid to learn new skills is a no brainer. As far as the company, just training a group of random IT folks to be java developers and telling them to build some new software is going to be a recipe for disaster if not done well. But it could work if the company also does the following: * Hires a Lead/Architect to manage the project, who loves teaching and has the patience of a saint * Implements a strong peer code review system, where an experienced developer reviews and can require changes before any commit makes it into the main branch * Uses Version Control, preferably Git * Company sets up a Continuous Build Environment, and has creative ways to shame people into not breaking the build! New developers break builds a LOT. Waiting days or weeks to integrate new devs code will drive the leads to alcohol induced liver failure. * Company does not have any preconceived delivery dates. A new team like this will take a LOT longer to ramp up, than bringing in a bunch of experienced java contractors. 
Top reason: method callbacks, custom code is what developers are comfortable with. Middleware is less technical and more data driven. Mapping fields and simple string manipulations make up 90%+ of the work. In many ways the term 'integration development' is a misnomer - not much development actually happens if the tool is good. When you have hundreds of mappings to do, with deeply nested documents, just clicking the tree control items down to the document u want and then dragging an arrow to the output is simpler, faster (no typing), and can be checked as your doing it - invalid mappings are caught straight away. Also integration developers are generally less technical than 'normal' developers (java devs, web devs, library devs, etc). Drag and drop is natural, intuitive and everyone gets it when they see it. Some mapping tools are so good the business analysts can do it. GUI mapping tools are a major selling point for all EAI vendors, for this reason. The one caveat I have is that the mappings should be text and accessible to the developer. This allows version control, and manual edits to the text if required (mass search and replace comes to mind). Also text is good for power users and advanced stuff (in-line scripting, metadata hacks and other joys). Looking forward to checking your code out.. 
BPEL-WS is an OASIS standard, and there are FOSS implementations out there 
spring xd would be useful but it requires so many dependencies. Redis and Rabbit mq, why would I need rabbit MQ when I'm already using kafka, or Redis when hbase is available. 
Converting average office workers into Java developers seems extremely unrealistic, and even more-so with a 5-month timeframe. Even most experienced Java developers have to work hard and carefully in order to build competent products that work more than 50% of the time. I can't say whether or not this will be a wise move FOR YOU, I can't say without more info: * What's your current salary? * Do you have a specialty, or is it really just average normal uninteresting office work? * Have you ever tried anything programming related? Scripting? Html? Mathematics? * Do you enjoy problem solving? If your computer misbehaves, can you usually figure out how to fix it on your own? * Are you getting paid to do this? Is this a wise move for the company? From my perspective, this seems like a terrible idea by some naive CEO who thinks he can cut-costs by training internal lower-paid employees to perform the same job. Even with experienced and educated programmers, it's hard to build a 'competent' team. Every sign tells me that this is eventually going to be a giant disaster for the company, at which point, rescuing it will likely involve re-hiring those expensive consultants, only this time the consultants will be horrified at what they see.
Not sure about Tomcat but I ran Jetty (Servlets) on a jail-broken iPhone 1. It works like a charm, Also worked on iPad 1. 
Although it would be better if you knew Java, it is not necessary. A guy managing a construction business is not at once a plumber, an electrician, an architect, a mason, etc. But the key in that case is to respect their expertise. Do not act as if you knew it better than they do because they will see you are a fake. Also some things may seem easy to you who do not know java but it might be actually complicated. For instance being an architect is not just about choosing where to put walls and doors like you would do in minecraft, it implies calculations to avoid the whole building to collapse. It can be tough not to be afraid of people cheating you when something you think is easy takes 4 days of work for them, but if you always treat them as crooks they will hate you, and things will not be faster anyway.
Ultimate edition handles python and php, I'm pretty sure. 
Most bootcamps are teaching how to do a CRUD app with a much more flexible language (ruby or python in many cases). If this is 20 weeks of Java (and realize that this isn't likely 20 *dedicated* weeks of Java, but rather 20 weeks of 9am to 3pm of Java, and then 3pm to 6pm of 'hurry up and do your old job too'). So, 20ish weeks of Java and then being able to take over ${huge project} that experienced consultants have been modifying for some time, understand the schemas involved, and start fixing bugs (with the boss's boss breathing down his or her neck wondering when there will be results and that we've invested $30k/person in the class - when will this have ROI?)? That's possibly a bit of a disaster waiting to happen. Side bit - a previous employer of mine had "if you take a class on company time and leave before 1 year, you will need to pay the company back the cost for that class and $50/day for time lost" - when the trainer on a 20w class could easily go in to the 10k/student and 20 * 5 * $50 = $5,000... well, that was a *previous* employer for good reason (just an example, the class was to learn more secure programming concepts... I 'tested out of it').
A text editor does not get in my way to the degree that Eclipse does. Spelunking through settings to get exactly what I want takes way too long and sometimes simply fails for no discernable reason way too often. 
Agree completely. Small companies tend to have skilled devs who just do this in code or knock something up themselves. That is what I do myself when contracting out to small companies. If you have 3 systems, and they are not that complicated, then its simpler to do it yourself.
A quick glance on my phone, but it looks like you just need to reset the guessesTaken variable when the user types y. Where you set it to 4...set it to 1 instead. 
It doesn't have to be web based. I basically use Jenkins instead of crontab. You just execute a main class from a jar and have a UI for runtimes, failures, logs lots of fun stuff. Theres also tons of plugins.
Try Intellij, you really won't regret it. 
So I fixed that issue but now another one came up. If I choose to play again after guessing correctly or running out of guesses, it always gives me the same value to guess each time. I tried moving the int valueToGuess = randInt(1,10); inside the for loop but then it gave me different values to guess as I was playing. I can't figure out a way to make it so that it gives me the same value while I'm playing but different values if I choose to play again.
You need to break out of the for loops for correct answers. As it is now the for loop continue and you get however many guesses are left and you are still guessing on the first number.
Sorry- I wasn't all that specific... It will also be used for projects that are distributed to a customer level, so I can not used jenkins.
I finished a 12 week program at my job about 2 months ago. I had programming experience before, but no Java. The course covered from basic Java to most used design patterns and a introduction to spring. The course didn't hit everything I use in the day to day job, but it set me into the right state of mind to me able to ask what I don't know. I'd say to take the course, especially if you get paid to learn. 
This post is better suited for /r/Javahelp as /r/Java is for: &gt;**News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language** as is clearly stated in the **sidebar** where also the following is stated: &gt;**Please seek help with Java programming in /r/Javahelp!**
Or just follow the official Tutorial, hang out at /r/java and /r/learnjava, join a few open-source projects and learn java for $0. Sorry, but you fail to convey what makes this course so "amazing". As it stands your post sounds like a sales pitch.
This is already a crosspost from [learnprogramming](http://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/comments/2mu2ma/java_loop_isnt_resetting_the_counter_when_it/), of course without mentioning it. And it's already solved. On a sidenote: I'm still all for making these sidebar links (especially to /r/javahelp) more prominent with colored boxes or something ;)
Typical. Nothing more to say. I've already added the separate lines about seeking help in /r/Javahelp to the sidebar. Working on the CSS to make it stand out better but this will take some time.
Mispelled cancel as cencel. Also, your runnable isn't going to throw an InterruptException unless it is blocking on a method that throws an interrupt exception, eg. Object.wait or it has been specifically designed to throw an interruptexception when the thread is interrupted. In regards to your solution, it almost seems you want the mapping the other way around. Wouldn't Map&lt;Future&lt;?&gt;, CancelableRunnable&gt; be more appropriate. Then you can work from the Future, if the task is finished fine, if not cancel it and cancel it from your Map.
Or, you could take the **free** [Java for Complete Beginners](https://www.udemy.com/java-tutorial) course (also on Udemy.com and has great reviews) besides what /u/llogiq suggested. If a course is titled "Java in 5 days - the most easiest way ever" it makes me highly suspicious. "Most-easiest" is grammatically wrong and so I automatically lose interest. Plus from the course synopsis: &gt;This course would introduce you to Java. If you are tired of learning old and new fatigue methods of learning Java but in no vain, then this is the course for you where you would be able to complete this course in no time and in the most proficient and efficient way. You don't need to have any prior knowledge of Programming before getting started with this course. If you are a complete newbie to the world of programming then you can surely kick start off this course. This course covers all the essential stuff which is needed in order to make you understand Java in the most easiest way ever. After this course , you would be completely familiar with Java in no time. This course covers all of the easiest methods and techniques with tricks to make you learn Java. You just have to sit and watch the video lectures and in no time with practice examples you would be at the top of Java. &gt; &gt;Java is now-a-days very important programming language to learn as almost every third mobile device is using Android which runs Java. Most of the Web Applications are now targeting Java. &gt; &gt; ... &gt; &gt; So whether if you are a complete newbie or intermediate one , you can take on this course to polish your skills with Java and Programming. &gt; &gt;If you seeking a Java developer job but don't know how to deal with Java then you must grab on this course. This is not English and barely readable - another minus point. &gt;
Javawithease is a place for easy, simple and step by step learning of java and other software development technologies.
&gt;I'm just imagining 20 "Davids" from The Office David Wallace? Or are you not talking about the tv show?
The information density there is quite low. A shame, annotations don't have to be designed this way. Repeating annotations at least are a tool to make some parts less verbose.
David Brent (UK version) .. I think.. 
I recommend Martin Fowler's [Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture](http://www.amazon.com/Patterns-Enterprise-Application-Architecture-Martin/dp/0321127420)
Beg your pardon pal ! , but I reckon you are behaving like naive. If you are pointing out grammatical mistakes in URL "https://www.udemy.com/learn-java-in-5-days-the-most-easiest-way-ever/?couponCode=blackfridaybaidartuts" then you would have also checked out the title of the course which is completely different from the URL of the course. And the reason was that when I published my course for the first time , I was experimenting with it as I was new to Udemy and its strategies but as soon as I began to take the pace on , then I did several changes related to the description and as well as to the titles. Now Udemy is not allowing me to change the URL of the course. And brother, you don't have to be suspicious as this course has over 300 students plus 10 reviews , you can have a conjecture from such kinda statistics. Now lets talk about the description of the course ,as far as the grammar is concerned , no body can point out grammatical mistake in the description of the course , If you find so then do tell me. At least I didn't copy someone's description lolz. Now lets come to the question "Why would someone buy my course ? what is special in it ? well the reason for buying this course are the hand-on examples , which I bet , no other course in udemy have taught that yet. 
Beg your pardon pal ! , but I reckon you are behaving like naive. If you are pointing out grammatical mistakes in URL "https://www.udemy.com/learn-java-in-5-days-the-most-easiest-way-ever/?couponCode=blackfridaybaidartuts" then you would have also checked out the title of the course which is completely different from the URL of the course. And the reason was that when I published my course for the first time , I was experimenting with it as I was new to Udemy and its strategies but as soon as I began to take the pace on , then I did several changes related to the description and as well as to the titles. Now Udemy is not allowing me to change the URL of the course. And brother, you don't have to be suspicious as this course has over 300 students plus 10 reviews , you can have a conjecture from such kinda statistics. Now lets talk about the description of the course ,as far as the grammar is concerned , no body can point out grammatical mistake in the description of the course , If you find so then do tell me. At least I didn't copy someone's description lolz. Now lets come to the question "Why would someone buy my course ? what is special in it ? well the reason for buying this course are the hand-on examples , which I bet , no other course in udemy have taught that yet.
Let's make things clear: I am neither your brother, nor your pal! And I am nowhere near being naive. &gt;no body can point out grammatical mistake in the description of the course Even here you have errors. + no body - **nobody** is a single word unless you mean no body in the sense of no corpse (or physical body) + can point out grammatical mistake - **plural** necessary here and **any** missing: ...can point out **any** grammatical mistake*s* **But the ones I found glancing over the synopsis are:** + This course **would** introduce you to Java. - should be **will**. + If you are tired of learning old and new fatigue methods of learning Java but in no vain - What does this sentence actually say? + If you are a complete newbie to the world of programming then you can surely **kick start off** this course. - the **off** is surplus here + in the **most easiest** way ever. - **easiest** is already the **superlative** there is no place for **most** + ...in no time with practice examples you **would** be at the top of Java. - again **will** instead of **would** + Java is **now-a-days** very important programming language - There are **2** mistakes in a single line: **nowadays** is **one word** and the article **a** is missing after nowadays. The article is mandatory here. + ...you can take **on** this course to polish your skills with Java and Programming. - the **on** is surplus here. You **take a course** but not **take on a course** + If you seeking a Java developer job but don't know how to deal with Java then you must grab on this course. - Again **2** mistakes in a single line: If you **are** seeking... and **grab this course**, not **grab on** this course. The above errors are only the ones I quickly spotted. I am perfectly sure that there are considerably more. Articles **the**, **a**, **an** are **mandatory** in the English language and you are missing quite a few of them.
Ever try to set up a service with a two way SSL connection in Oracle Fusion? It nearly drove me to jump off the roof of my office. I finally figured out that the SSL keystore used for the inbound connection is different than the one used in the outbound connection. The inbound connection can be configured in the weblogic console, but the outbound connection has to be configured in Enterprise Manager. What sense does this make? I completely agree that this stuff is over complicated, but I also agree with some of the sentiment above that the more support you add for additional integrations the more complex it will become. Recently I started using Jboss Fuse Serviceworks. I thought this would be simpler than Fusion Middleware, and it is in a lot of respects, but why did it take me probably a day to figure out how to write a service that inserted data into a database? I could have done that in an hour using JPA or JDBC. These things are just massively complicated and I guess I'm not sure if your wheel really will be rounder than any of the other wheels that came before it. Good luck though.
I was assuming they would hire real leads. Not true about Jr devs either. I know plenty that had other types of degrees and or no internships. Hell, I'm self taught with a polisci degree and I'm the best Dev on my team. 
I can't think when it would be a bad idea. If I applied to a technical role, and they didn't test my technical abilities during the interview process. I would be alarmed.
Unlimited vacation after the first year of employment?
Why do you think they need 30 devs?
Yep, that is true! A dev took 4 weeks off to go to Brazil for the World Cup this year, for instance. It's a great benefit that isn't abused due to a focus on hiring on culture-fit too - lots of accountability to your teammates and projects. 
SPARC does software dev for the government, and multiple contracts were awarded in the last 60 days. Time to staff up! There are also a bunch of other tech jobs too (QA, TRA, etc). Tell your friends! 
JRE = Java Runtime Environment. That's basically java.exe plus a bunch of libraries. This lets you run Java programs JDK = Java Development Kit. That's basically javac.exe and the other tools you need to both build AND run Java programs. If you need to write code, get a JDK.
Are you interested in becoming a programmer? Does the thought of giving a machine instructions and having it slavishly follow them give you goosebumps? Do you fiddle around with everything in your day to day software tools? Are you unafraid to try menu items and see what happens? Are you one of the guys people go and ask how stuff works, and it's not that you actually *know* the answer, it's just that you play around until you find it? If so, you might be a candidate for learning to program.
Agreed, but when I was last job hunting I found most roles didn't test my coding ability at any point. Would having the the technical test as the first stage of an interview make you reluctant to do it though? That's what I'm struggling with.
Can I manually install these two parts I can't install it on Microsoft Surface pro is this disabled 
http://postimg.org/image/413jya6jz/
maybe remove the the following picture from the Carousel. http://www.sparcedge.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/hackathon-091.jpg it's creepy as F@CK!
Do you hire world wide devs?
How many developers does it take to go on unlimited vacation? All of them.
Ha! That's from one of SPARC's Hackathons... note the countdown timer in the background. Also explains the costume. I believe he was on the "League of Pantless Gentlemen", and isn't wearing pants. Thank god for cropping. 
That's all nice and shiny. I'm not seeing the words "competitive salaries" anywhere though.. Also, minimum reqs: * Must be a U.S. citizen and able to obtain a Secret security clearance. *So no permanent residents.. Good luck with that..* * Must live in Charleston, SC or be willing to relocate. * Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or related field and 5 plus years related experience. * 5 or more years of Software Development and Implementation * 5 or more years experience working with service orientation concepts and enabling technologies. Again, good luck on getting those kind of people to SC.. If you need more than 30 people in less than a month - Go for juniors.. 
It's not nearly as good of a perk as you think. Here's a good article on it - http://jacobian.org/writing/unlimited-vacation/
plus, PBR!
You can look at this tutorial/example : http://spring.io/guides/tutorials/bookmarks/ They build a restful backend and test it. They use Spring boot, but if you want to use only Spring MVC Rest it should be the same thing ( same controllers, same tests).
The first mistake you pointed out is that I typed "no body" instead of "nobody". But lemme tell you one thing, this is not a grammatical mistake lolz. This is a typing mistake lolz. Now let's conclude the rest of mistakes. 1) This course would introduce you to Java - should be will ( I reckon you learnt your English from alien's school, lolz. If you can't even spot out the difference between will and would then I think this debate is useless. lemme tell you the clear difference, "Would refers to half-open or closed condition as an analogue of will", in conditionals sentences we can refer to it and as well as it depends upon the context) 2) If you are tired of learning old and new fatigue methods of learning Java but in no vain - What does this sentence actually say? ( oh come on man ! , Do I really need to explain this simple sentence. Even a kid could understand its meaning by having a single glance at it. Oops sorry , you're neither a kid nor naive, in fact you're a dumbo. This sentence clearly talks about old and fagged methods of learning java. 3)If you are a complete newbie to the world of programming then you can surely kick start off this course. - the off is surplus here ( You must be kidding me lolz. Now please don't tell me that lolz is also a grammatical mistake hehehe. Do you even know the ins and outs of grammar ? "Off normally functions as an adverb or a preposition but it can also function as an adjective and, more rarely, as a noun".But here I have used it as a preposition of "of". 4) Yeah I agree to certain extent that "most" is an exaggeration but you can't considered this to be a part of grammar. As I've used this informally. it is a quantifier that is not a part of the English grammar. 5) in no time with practice examples you would be at the top of Java. - again will instead of would ( I have already explained the difference above) 6) Java is now-a-days very important programming language - There are 2 mistakes in a single line: nowadays is one word and the article a is missing after nowadays. The article is mandatory here. ( I have used now-a-days informally as you can see that I haven't added spaces between now , a and days rather I added hyphens. So it clearly indicates the readability terms rather than grammatical terms , if I would have used spaces instead of hyphens then you could call it a grammatical mistake. Now let's come to the second mistake you spotted about the article "a" , who told you it is mandatory. The article "a" is used " with a non-specific noun or when you have never talked about that noun before with the listener". So whether you add it or not after "now-a-days" , it doesn't matter. In both way the sentence is correct. You can either check it in online grammar checker lolz. 7) you can take on this course to polish your skills with Java and Programming. - the on is surplus here. You take a course but not take on a course (hahaha lolz I can't even stop my laughter. Indeed , you pointed out very funny stuff. "Take on" here means to undertake the course , which literally means "Take over". For reference please visit "http://www.thefreedictionary.com/take+over". 8) If you seeking a Java developer job but don't know how to deal with Java then you must grab on this course. - Again 2 mistakes in a single line: If you are seeking... and grab this course, not grab on this course.( Again I have to remind you that you can't take this into an account of grammatical mistakes. This is a simple typing mistake , sometime you forget to add such kinda verbs. And in the whole description , I just forgot it there so you can clearly have a conjecture that it is a typing mistake not grammatical but yeah i know that you are dumbo , so you can't figure it out. At last , I have two quotations for you " Egotism is the source and summary of all faults and miseries." and "People are so quick to judge other's faults, but never quick to point out their own" ---&gt; Now please don't tell me that why I used "out" with "point" i.e "point out" lolz. 
The first mistake you pointed out is that I typed "no body" instead of "nobody". But lemme tell you one thing, this is not a grammatical mistake lolz. This is a typing mistake lolz. Now let's conclude the rest of mistakes. 1) This course would introduce you to Java - should be will ( I reckon you learnt your English from alien's school, lolz. If you can't even spot out the difference between will and would then I think this debate is useless. lemme tell you the clear difference, "Would refers to half-open or closed condition as an analogue of will", in conditionals sentences we can refer to it and as well as it depends upon the context) 2) If you are tired of learning old and new fatigue methods of learning Java but in no vain - What does this sentence actually say? ( oh come on man ! , Do I really need to explain this simple sentence. Even a kid could understand its meaning by having a single glance at it. Oops sorry , you're neither a kid nor naive, in fact you're a dumbo. This sentence clearly talks about old and fagged methods of learning java. 3)If you are a complete newbie to the world of programming then you can surely kick start off this course. - the off is surplus here ( You must be kidding me lolz. Now please don't tell me that lolz is also a grammatical mistake hehehe. Do you even know the ins and outs of grammar ? "Off normally functions as an adverb or a preposition but it can also function as an adjective and, more rarely, as a noun".But here I have used it as a preposition of "of". 4) Yeah I agree to certain extent that "most" is an exaggeration but you can't considered this to be a part of grammar. As I've used this informally. it is a quantifier that is not a part of the English grammar. 5) in no time with practice examples you would be at the top of Java. - again will instead of would ( I have already explained the difference above) 6) Java is now-a-days very important programming language - There are 2 mistakes in a single line: nowadays is one word and the article a is missing after nowadays. The article is mandatory here. ( I have used now-a-days informally as you can see that I haven't added spaces between now , a and days rather I added hyphens. So it clearly indicates the readability terms rather than grammatical terms , if I would have used spaces instead of hyphens then you could call it a grammatical mistake. Now let's come to the second mistake you spotted about the article "a" , who told you it is mandatory. The article "a" is used " with a non-specific noun or when you have never talked about that noun before with the listener". So whether you add it or not after "now-a-days" , it doesn't matter. In both way the sentence is correct. You can either check it in online grammar checker lolz. 7) you can take on this course to polish your skills with Java and Programming. - the on is surplus here. You take a course but not take on a course (hahaha lolz I can't even stop my laughter. Indeed , you pointed out very funny stuff. "Take on" here means to undertake the course , which literally means "Take over". For reference please visit "http://www.thefreedictionary.com/take+over". 8) If you seeking a Java developer job but don't know how to deal with Java then you must grab on this course. - Again 2 mistakes in a single line: If you are seeking... and grab this course, not grab on this course.( Again I have to remind you that you can't take this into an account of grammatical mistakes. This is a simple typing mistake , sometime you forget to add such kinda verbs. And in the whole description , I just forgot it there so you can clearly have a conjecture that it is a typing mistake not grammatical but yeah i know that you are dumbo , so you can't figure it out. At last , I have two quotations for you " Egotism is the source and summary of all faults and miseries." and "People are so quick to judge other's faults, but never quick to point out their own" ---&gt; Now please don't tell me that why I used "out" with "point" i.e "point out" lolz. 
Just because you are a good technical instructor , it doesn't mean that you have to point out a mistake which doesn't exist. And sometime newbie can do a lot better than experienced one. As experienced people have only one thing "Ego" and yeah I am not justifying it , I am clarifying it. There is a big difference between justification and clarification.
BTW : I am a software developer by profession and as well as Microsoft certified professional developer. 
Oh come on, cut the crap. Instead of being grateful that somebody corrected your mistakes, you start reasoning and explaining with **lolz** - makes it even harder to take you seriously.
Ahem... I did not make any suggestions, you obviously confuse me with /u/desrtfx Rather than ranting and just copy-pasting your replies, you should have looked at the usernames...
That's why I did another archetype with JBoss RestEasy 3 &gt; https://github.com/pabiagioli/shiro-guice-resteasy-webapp-archetype I think that eventually, if Jersey doesn't officially support Guice everyone is going to migrate to RestEasy or something else... 
How many people make it longer than a year (i.e. get canned before a year is up)? That's the real question.
When the name for this company was chosen, were they completely unaware of the history of the SPARC? Can you say "namespace collision"? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SPARC
What do you mean by well-built? Like following principles like HATEOAS? If that's what you want to do, there is [Spring HATEOAS](http://projects.spring.io/spring-hateoas/). There's also [Spring Data JPA](http://projects.spring.io/spring-data-jpa/) which lets you expose your JPA models as REST resources. Other than that, the basic REST controller framework doesn't really differ much from Jersey, except that Spring provides MVC capabilities, which if you're writing an Angular application, is probably something you wouldn't be interested in.
Onsite.
Sorry to tell you, your post is better suited for /r/Javahelp. /r/Java is for: &gt;**News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language** as is stated in the **sidebar**. Also there, you can see: &gt;**Please seek help with Java programming in /r/Javahelp!**
"Unlimited vacation" is the greatest scam pulled on the American workforce in the past decade.
Sorry about that. I remove this post.
Just move it over (unfortunately you have to re-create it) to /r/javahelp. Quite sure that you will quickly get help there. 
Thanks for the detailed reasoning. So your "target market" is not formed by technical people. I created uniVocity exactly for the reason that there's is a lack of tools for developers who need to create data integration solutions. As a developer, I always got extremely frustrated as how inflexbile the GUI oriented solutions were, and how there was nothing that could help me implement a decent data migration/synchronization solution without a lot of code that was hard create and maintain Sure, you can get 90% of the job done in the UI if it is good AND your data requires simple String manipulation. However, the 10% non-trivial case can be simply impossible to resolve with a UI. If your data needs to come from Java objects, for example, you're stuck. If the you need function that's not in the UI, you're stuck. You can write some custom scripts with the UI tool, but these are limited too. That's why I created a framework. If the framework does not provide a function you need, you won't be stuck as you can implement whatever weird use case you have around it, or simply extend the framework with your code if that's all that it takes. Also, there's no limit on how the data is stored, so you don't need to rely on someone to create a UI for your specific case. Using any other existing ETL tool, you wouldn't be able to implement anything close to the solution we implemented for [our demonstration app] (http://www.univocity.com/pages/demonstration). Have a look on the example there and consider this input: 01001;0100;Butter, salted;..;6.38;4.27;8.79;3.87 01002;0100;Butter, whipped, with salt;...;6.38;4.27;8.79;3.87 We need to: Create a row in FOOD_NAME for butter Create 3 rows in FOOD_STATE for salted, whipped and with salt Create 2 rows in FOOD One for the butter with states salted Another for butter with states whipped, with salt NAME_ID must refer to the same FOOD_NAME (butter) Create the correct associations in STATE_OF_FOOD: FOOD_ID refers to the ID in FOOD STATE_ID refers to an ID in FOOD_STATE SEQUENCE is the order in which the states appear All ID's are generated We don't keep the original identifiers (01001, etc) No other ETL tool in the market is able to chop the strings and from this input, aggregate them and then fill the destination database with the proper generated ID's. If you run the [demonstration app](https://github.com/uniVocity/univocity-examples/tree/master/src/main/java/com/univocity/app) you can see how the same information is kept consistent across the two wildly different database schemas. The good thing about starting UI-free is that a complementary UI can still be built on top of the framework later if that's going to sell. If you start with some idea of UI first you're bound to spend a lot of resources testing inputs and user interactions early on, instead of focusing on making the data flow efficiently. It all depends on how much you can invest in the beginning, and how many people are there to help you make it happen.
I'm probably what they are looking for, and I wouldn't mind moving to Charleston, but then I saw this: &gt; Bring your dog to work every Friday! Billions of bilious blue blistering barnacles. No!
I agree VAX is a much better name.
As long as they are a ROCK STAR!!!! Waaaaaoooooohhhhhhh!!! (Also accepting "gurus" and "ninjas")
Let me ask you something: You are unable to identify different users, are verbally abusive towards somebody who always maintained a professional attitude and refused to acknowledge the fact that you called him "dumb", doubted his education (where he, most likely is a native speaker as opposed to you), you resort to "lol" and other "teen-speak", yet, you can't write a single, coherent sentence without any of your "typos" (of which most are, in fact, [partly severe] grammatical errors). So, what image does this cast on you? Do you come across as a serious professional, or as a teenager mid-puberty? Think about that for a while and reflect upon the impact it has on your credibility as an educator.
I stopped at: &gt; is looking for rock stars to join our team! Seriously though, you don't want 30 rock stars.
Oh God, nothing would ever get built
I haven't even had time to play around with the Java 8 features :-O
I posted much of this in another comment that is low rep below. I'd like to point out a key part of this: return on investment and expectations of management. You're being offered what amounts to, lets call it about $30k to learn Java. Not that you're spending or getting this money - its internal funny money. Twenty weeks of not doing your regular job and instead learning. That is a *huge* investment in your future skill set. With such a large investment being made, at least a few companies have a golden handcuffs type thing for type of thing - if you leave the company before this investment has been paid off there might be a bit in your contract that says that you need to pay it off yourself. At a previous employer this was indeed spelled out whenever you took a class on company time or with company dollar - you'd need to pay it back if you leave before a year is up. Lets say thats ok, you're all for becoming a programmer. You and nine other people are taking this class. That amounts to $300k that the company is investing in this group of future developers. You're going to be taking over for some contractors (who can charge an arm and a leg - I've seen quarter million numbers on accounting spreadsheets for a single developer over the course of a year ($100+/h * 2000 h = $$$$)). So, we train 10 developers for the cost of a single high paid (or two medium paid) consultant who has been working on a huge code base and we break even in a year. Its great on paper. The reality is that you may be taking over a huge code base. Here's 1M lines of code. You've had 20 weeks of learning Java. Now start fixing the bugs at the same rate that the contractors were when your manager's manager kicked them out and said they'd be taking over. I'll phrase it straight up. The way you become a superb developer and software architect (the contractors that you are replacing) is making mistakes. Lots of them. You have no idea how many times I've had to fix bugs - both my own and others. The people you are replacing have fixed lots of bugs and know the architecture of the system intimately. To use a manufacturing analogy, you are a electrician who just got his license to work solo. Here's a high rise building that has been maintained by a contracting firm that has had 100 years of experience (10 contractors with 10 years each) working on it for a few years. There are some ugly hacks and some code that may not be up to code if you look too closely (enough to get past the inspector - they needed that room available a week before they were done with it and so fudged some things). And now you're going in and trying to keep everything running and the lights on (and fix that switch on the 34th floor when you change the bulbs from incandescent to LED). Your manager's manager wants to see results. He likely wants to see $300k results *this year* (well, in the remaining 30 weeks). I am not sure if you will be able to deliver that with such minimal training. Not that 20 weeks isn't a lot. Its more than the code boot camps do - but they're writing CRUD apps. Simple database create, ~~replicate, append, process~~ read, update, delete. Really simple applications in the scheme of things - no design is really needed. You're diving in to a huge code base with lots of history to it and lacking that design experience (you won't get it in 20 weeks... you'll need 20x that experience (not training) - working on things and breaking them). So... its a wonderful opportunity to do something new. There is quite a bit left unsaid in your description that I'd be wary of. I'd make sure that you, your (future) manager, and the director are all aware of the expectations of what will happen in the next year or two after the class is complete. Also make sure you *can* get out if you want to - that you don't find yourself an indentured servant having to pay back $30k of training experiences to leave the company. Personally, I suspect the contractors will be back about 6 months after the class is over (and you may have a new manager and director)... but that's just my guess, vaguely based on past experiences.
ahh ok that makes sense
Haha, wow. I meant Kevin.
&gt; No previous programming experience, skill level is that of your average office based worker. If you have no previous exposure to programming *at all,* then it's a crap shoot. Some people just don't seem to get it. I don't think that's a referendum on their intelligence; I just think that there is some particular turn of mind. I wouldn't even say that it's a rare talent -- I don't think it is. I just think that you might find out it isn't for you. What's the downside to signing up? Are you able to drop out, with no prejudice against you? If you have had any exposure to programming, say, even a brief workshop in high school or whatever, and you were interested in it and found what you were learning to be intriguing, then I would say go for it. If you've even programmed some simple Excel macros and thought that was cool, I would say go for it. I think you could learn a lot in 5 months of dedicated learning, especially if you play around on your own outside of work. But you're going to have a lot to learn after that. If there are other developers where you work that could mentor you, even a little bit, or even just to be there for the occasional question, that's ideal. But if a bunch of you are going to get out of that 20 week program, and it's expected that the whole bunch of you greenhorns are going to be programmers that can just be pointed at a project and told to "make it so," that's going to be a disaster. It will be the blind leading the blind.
Looks like some good compiler improvements.
Build other stuff. But also, there's probably plenty more you can do with your current work: - Do you have the ability to make the source code freely available? If so, put it up on Github. - While developing this, did you use any issue tracking or version control software? If not, take this as an opportunity to learn some! - Maintenance is a huge part of the software development lifecycle. Is there a place on the site for users to report bugs? You could add one, and can probably integrate it into your bug tracker too! - Does the site currently have any test coverage? If not, might want to start adding some tests.
As far as version control and github, I am currently using GitHub and git to do that. [Repo](https://github.com/b3zman41/school-store). Also, what do you mean about tests? I don't really have any knowledge in that area except for a little bit of Gradle testing.
Besides everyone's egos
I was referring primarily to unit tests and integration tests: automated code that checks other code to ensure that it's doing what you think it's doing, usually bundled up into a "test suite" that you can run to ensure that all the little chunks ("units") are working. If you've got some tests running in Gradle, that's a good start. Testing is an area where many people believe many different things, so read up on it but bear in mind that any given author's take on testing is just one opinion out of many. (For example, "should a unit test always have one and only one assertion?" and "what percentage of my code should be covered by tests?" are questions that will get WILDLY different answers depending on who you're talking to, and you may even get multiple answers from the same person.) EDIT: I took a cursory glance through your repo and didn't see any tests - is there a reason you don't have them under version control? (Or maybe you do, and I just didn't see them...)
I was just saying that I have touched upon Gradle testing in another [repo](https://github.com/thatJavaNerd/JRAW) I contributed to a little while ago. I should definitely add some Gradle testing to this though, it would definitely speed up dev time. Thanks!
Makes sense. If the product is essentially finished, adding tests may not be the most *interesting* thing you could be doing, but at the very least, it'll be good experience for you.
https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~scottm/cs307/handouts/Eclipse%20Help/jarInEclipse.htm
Err no, not when your interviews are run unprofessionally like [this](http://www.glassdoor.com/Interview/SPARC-Interview-RVW3117780.htm).
Why is RoR on this job description?
It'll be super sweet when our customer lets us move to Java 9, sometime in 2025.
If you're not using a good IDE, try one - they make all the difference. We use Eclipse (my personal favourite) at my work, others use IntelliJ or Netbeans. There are quite a few readability / program flow things Eclipse provides to aid readability: - double click a method/variable to highlight it, and all other occurrences of it will be highlighted in the same file - while a method/variable is highlighted, pressing Control+Shift+G will find all references to it in your current workspace (including other files), handy to know where methods / static variables are called from - If you highlight the class name and press F4, it will show you a hierarchy of the class's inheritance - all the way back up to Object. This is especially useful for things like abstract classes and interfaces. - For program flow, you can hold Control and click a method, and it will take you to that method. When you're done, you can press Alt+Left Arrow to go back to where you were. - Control+Shift+T will bring up a window to search for a Type; this can be one of your own classes, or a library class (note: you may not have the source code for classes that aren't yours). This is much easier than looking through the packages manually. - Control+Shift+R: same as above but includes all resources e.g. XML files. Eclipse also allows you to debug a running Java application by connecting to it via a socket. Run -&gt; Debug Configurations -&gt; Remote Java Application will allow you specify a host and port to attach to. Then, run your Java program like so: java -Xdebug -Xrunjdwp:server=y,transport=dt_socket,address=&lt;your port&gt;,suspend=n &lt;yourJavaClass&gt; Double click a line in your source code in Eclipse to add a breakpoint there; when your running application reaches that line, Eclipse will launch into Debug mode, and you can manually step through your program's execution. As you do this, you'll be able to see the current variables (you can also do things like add some code in the 'expressions' tab that will be evaluated at the current point of execution, but that's a bit more advanced). Hope this helps somewhat!
UML is used, but more so in the design phase. It's helpful for demonstrating how certain design patterns can be used in your code.
If you don't mind me asking, what industry have you seen UML in action? I haven't seen it practiced in a long time. I'm in banking. 
As /u/autophage says, unit testing will make employers look more favourably on you. At my work we provide a simple class and ask people to write a unit test for it as part of their application; many people don't even get past this stage. Web applications aren't *as* applicable to unit testing as they're driven more by user interactions. What might be a good exercise for you is find a programming problem that is more I/O or processing driven, then write some unit tests to compare some expected results with what your code actually does. A simple example would be; write a method which validates that a string (e.g. a password) conforms to some criteria, e.g. has at least one number, an uppercase, a non-alpha character etc. Returns true if it's valid, false otherwise. Then, write a method which has a bunch of valid/invalid passwords, and checks that the method provides the correct result for each. Example (some JUnit style code): @Test public void testValidatePassword() { assertEquals(true, validatePassword("$1aBc")); assertEquals(false, validatePassword("$abC")); // no number // test all different combinations e.g. abc, abc1, $abc1, $Abc1 } It's not the most glamorous thing, but it holds you in great stead if you enter a professional coding career with unit test knowledge. Part of providing stable releases to clients is ensuring that you don't introduce any bugs to existing code; executing well written unit tests can provide assurance that the code still functions as expected (most companies even run a nightly build as well as their continuous builds, for the purpose of running all unit tests).
Financial services software (investment platforms, superannuation etc). 
I just calculated. Actually I believe you may have to wait at least until 2035. First, I guess we still have to wait for the guys that are supposed to review OpenJDK8 to get the job done and figure how license works(about +1~2 years). Then wait for the dude in his basement that works on IcedTea(or equivalent) to implements the spec with 32/64 bits builds(about +2years~5years w/ heavy maintenance). Then, at this point, consumer start to get confident enough to install Java8 directly, but since new java dev figure everything make more sense with lambda and JavaFX, they decide to make horrible app that keep crashing(due to their own noobness with these new feature). As result it scare away a good chunk of the customer, enough that people start to evangelise a major rollback to java7(+1.5years). Thankfully, that doesn't last to long. Meanwhile, Google get mad with his Dalvik VM, since it can't run any lambda and decide to create a new java spec with awesome feature but it's incompatible with the OracleSpec and end up getting the java community to split over some tradeoff feature(+4years). Then asm.js start to get way more efficient, so as time go, portability issues are viewed as non-problem and major contributor to java decide to leave the boat to improve asm.js(+2years). At this point the CLR start to get pretty good and can even run some legacy java bytecode in his own VM, but this feature had only a minor impact over anything, since Visual Studio couldn't get a (package/build)-manager as full featured as Maven(+0.25years). In order to counter-attack all those event, Oracle finaly buy JRebel and add even more full-featured real-time compilation to the Java9 specs. Yet we have to wait again how thing works with the java commitee, get the stuff implemented on the OracleJDK9+OpenJDK9(+~8years). Yet, java still got the best library so the JVM is still as popular as ever(-2years)! So 2014+(2+5+1.5+4+2+0.25+8-2)=2035. Hope that it make any sense :o)
Well congratulations then. You have actually wasted your "precious" time by not realizing that you posted in a *thread* where all replies are automatically visible to everyone as opposed to posting in a *PM* where the replies go directly to the originator and are visible only to the recipient.
Glad you've asked the worldwide community in /r/java.
https://www.google.com/search?q=eclipse+export+jar
Please don't remind me! I am aware that my replies are visible to everyone as I want to show all other people that how people like you make an authentic course unauthentic by providing such kinda ironic comments.
Thanks this is a good post. I do use Netbeans and I'm sure it has a lot of the same functionality. However, we don't get taught how to debug (why I'm not sure) and it has been a bit of a learning curve trying to understand how to do that stuff. I am def going to try these in Eclipse.
IDEA has an auto-update feature. If you have it enabled, it will let you know about all these updates and install them.
You don't really need to know Java, though it is definitely a plus and will make you a better manager of Java devs if you do. In my years as a software engineer, though, here is the thing that is most crucial for managers to understand: dependencies! Most businesses are organized around what is most convenient for managers. You divide up a system into chunks, and assign a team to each chunk, and the way the responsibilities of those teams is decided is based on the reporting structure managers want under them. In software, this ignores a very important thing, though: Over time, a software architecture reflects the organization of the teams that made it, and the boundaries between these subsystems should be determined by the problem, not by reporting structures convenient for management. This means that software should be architected in a way that splits things up into subsystems that have minimal, sensible dependencies between them, and then teams should be assigned to own each subsystem. Otherwise, if you start from how you want the org chart to lookas most companies doyou will find that the subsystems owned by the teams have horrendously complicated dependencies between them that make no sense at all, and the developers spend more time doing work that shouldn't have to be done in the first place than contributing meaningful code to the product. Or, the business tries to let the teams not own specific subsystems so they can fit the org chart, and they all share responsibilities. And this doesn't work because no one is accountable for the way things work, or the wrong people end up being accountable. Good managers don't allow this, or they change it when they encounter it to align the teams around the architecture. This requires being an awesome product expert, and knowing a bit about design or having a good technical architect who can advise you. &gt;Especially when I ask why something's not ready for production Don't ask this. You should never have to ask this. The process of submitting code and deploying to QA and testing should be transparent enough that you always know the state of things and where they are in the release pipeline and why. Release dates should never be so aggressive that there is risk around getting into production by some drop dead date. Build in enough buffer. If legit problems come up, fight to delay launch until it's ready, don't hurry the project. Identify the problems, scope them, figure out what it will take to fix them. In short, manage the project. (This is the value you add as a manager: make sure people are clear on their tasks, and then help them remove the obstacles in their way. It's not to tell them what to do or pressure them to hit unreasonable deadlines.) &gt; or when I say someone can't take a day off on that particular date. Never say this. No project should be in such a poor state of documentation and team awareness that people can't cover each other. If someone can't take a day off whenever they want, it means that person also can't experience something beyond their control. Maybe they're in a bad car accident and end up in the hospital. Maybe they get federally protected family leave. Maybe they quit because they found a better job. If you ever find yourself in a position where someone can't take time off that they're due **for any reason** (including elective vacation which is an *earned benefit*) given a few days notice, that is a management problem, not an engineer's problem. Even with no warning, if someone doesn't feel like they can call in sick, then management is doing a bad job.
In case OP wants it to *run* via doubleclick, the list item to be chosen in the first Export dialog should be "Runnable JAR file".
Unlimited vacations sounds like a scam to me as a norwegian. It's rather "unlimited" with some undefined and fuzzy rules to limit it. I'll rather take my normal six weeks of paid vacation, it's rare that i need more than that.
From the Java Doc the listFiles() method returns null if the File object does not refer to a directory. https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/io/File.html#listFiles() I'd suggest testing the pictureDictory first: if (pictureDirectory.isDirectory()) { for (File f: pictureDirectory.listFiles()) // go through each file { } } Also the File class has a constructor that takes and parent (File or String) and a child (String). It is best practice to use the two arg constructor rather than form the filename via string concatenation: File pictureDirectory = new File(homeDir,"photos"); Also for what you are trying to do, the following should be enough to find the photos directory in the current directory: File pictureDirectory = new File("photos"); 
You are sixteen? Learn to be an entrepreneur not an employee. Seriously, keep doing what you are doing. Keep learning, but don't train yourself to become a slave of a salary. If you can build stuff for others already, I'll say this: try to sell your stuff to others. Now. I wouldn't even invest in a university degree if you are already able to create functioning software. I would invest in building my own business instead. This requires some iterations of trial and error. You are young enough to afford failure and can retry multiple times. Go to uni after you tried enough to decide being and employER is not for you. I don't know how harder it gets to get into university after a few years of not studying (in the US). If it is not hard, then give yourself a chance of not becoming a slave of the system and put this aside for a few years. In the worst case scenario, you'll have experience. Register your company today if you can. At 22, you'll have 6 years of relevant experience. Many people at 24 have non-relevant experience (mc Donald's, waiter, etc) I learnt to code at 13. I'm 32 now and just recently accumulated the resources to start my own company. But I was raised in the "being good for the employer" family mentality. Now I'm struggling to not settle for less and start looking for job while the company has not taken off. Getting out of the rat race is harder when you get older and you can't afford to fail, literally. Do all you can while you are living with your parents. Ask for their support. Ask them to help you finding contacts and people who could buy software from you. Find a few partners among your friends, and go on. You won't lose anything. You can't lose.
I have used ObjectDB in the past (about 5 months ago), and the project really suffered from incomplete documentation. The guys developing it are Italian, and their English is a bit of a problem. I really like the concept though, and hope that they improve this aspect of the project. 
Please help
Thats ok, it will still be 3-&gt;7 years before 9 is released ;)
Yet it's not you who decides what days you're going to work, at what time, how much you're going to earn, and how many days your are going to take off to stay with family/vacation. The biggest problem with being an employee is that, in general, you are not free in the sense you can't work when you feel like it. Got a flu? Fuck you, you must work. Didn't sleep very well? Walk it off, office hours is 9 to whatever. Ah this weekend we'll need your soul because reasons. It doesn't matter how much you love something, it's going to suck if do that even when you're not disposed to (or face the consequences) I say fuck that. I was able to live like this for a long period of time, but in the last couple of years it began to feel extremely soul-sucking. All I could do was to look forward to the weekend. Edit: being an entrepreneur is not all about flowers. You're likely to work much more. I am working 16 hours a day or more. In the end Working on something you believe is key to keep you going, being an employee or otherwise. But some days I can just go to the beach and stay with family, that's a deal breaker for me
 /r/javahelp
Do you have a "photos" directory in the home directory of the user you run your application as ? (And remember, unlike windows, paths are case sensitive on linux)
You want [Files.walkFileTree](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/index.html?java/nio/file/Files.html) instead. Java 7 has a totally redesigned interface for file system access. At this point, you should make it a rule to never instantiate a `java.io.File` in any new code. Any legacy interfaces that require a File, just use `Path.toFile()`.
Job postings are not disallowed by the subreddit rules. I checked.
Do any of you knows a good ORM/OGM for OrientDB (Spring Data doesn't support it and Hibernate has OGM which are still in BETA).
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/blob/master/build.gradle
That's good to know! Thanks! edit: I wonder why they have their spring boot using maven?
SPARC has huge contracts for the Department of Defense...that is a DOD requirement. 
printf ([formater](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Formatter.html)) has a zero pad flag so you could use `%04.2f` Another option is DecimalFormat: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/DecimalFormat.html
As you code, consider what parts or aspects of your systems could be done by someone else. Large systems cannot be built by one person. So the skill of splitting a large project into reasonable collections of smaller projects is something to be learned. There are two approaches. The vertical and the horizontal. Roughly speaking, the vertical means that everyone learns everything in terms of technology, but may only be an expert at one area of user facing functionality. So one person may be an expert at the image upload system and another may be an expert at the user auth/auth system. But both persons have to know from HTML/JS all the way to a DB. The horizontal is that each person specializes in a technology, and has to know it very well. Each of these persons must collaborate with each other to build an area of user facing functionality. Once you start being able to split up your work, the next step is to find other's to do it. Even if it means you need to teach them to get them up to speed. 
Another thought. Learn the basics of encryption. How does SSL/HTTPS do it's thing ? learn key and certificates. How do you securely do passwords authentication ? Why does this work ? What is HMAC, What does it provide and NOT provide ? Learn how OAuth 2.0 works.
Yes please.
If you're wanting to use the current directory that the JAR was executed in, you can use the **user.dir** property. If you're wanting to use the user's home folder (for instance, *C:/Users/Bob* in Windows and */home/bob/* on Linux), you can use the **user.home** property. File home = new File(System.getProperty("user.dir")); File directory = new File(home, "photos"); As others have said, however, this depends entirely on how the JAR is launched.
I can't wait until IDEA 14.0.2.1.3.6.5.9 comes out!
They are not &amp; I didn't say that. What I was hinting at that you're offering an *on site* Job in an American City to a worldwide audience, which IMO is missing the target. /r/philadelphia might have been suited better.
That makes sense, I suppose it was a bit US-centric to post here. But the US northeastern seaboard is a rather populated place, and I thought here was a place more likely to find the skillset that my company is actually looking for.
Maybe you can somehow make use of https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/BitSet.html http://www.tutorialspoint.com/java/java_bitset_class.htm http://www.dotnetperls.com/bitset 
If you are doing money don't use float. Use BigDecimal. Floats are by definition inprecise. BigDecimal uses fixed point math and is much more reliable for money.
It supports newer Java EE specs than JBoss 7 (eg JPA 2.1 IIRC).
There were some interesting [comments](http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/2mw8mp/seven_virtues_of_a_good_object/) on this post over at /r/programming, but I think the post got downvoted to oblivion. I very much disagree with the author, but still, tough crowd.
This is the view of OOP circa mid-1990s. It has since gone through the trough of disillusionment.
Immutability is new, now that functional programming is all the rage. It's a useful concept, although I think the author's approach is a bit misguided for OOP. 
That's not really RESTful. Each segment of the path represents a separate resource that really should be handled by a separate controller method. However! It is *possible* to do what you want: @RequestMapping(value="/foo/{option1}/{option2}/{option3}", RequestMethod.GET) public String handleRequest(HttpServletRequest request) { Map&lt;String, String&gt; pathOpts = (Map&lt;String, String&gt;) request.getAttribute( HandlerMapping.URI_TEMPLATE_VARIABLES_ATTRIBUTE); String opt1, opt2, opt3; if(pathOpts != null) { opt1 = pathOpts.get("option1"); opt2 = pathOpts.get("option2"); opt3 = pathOpts.get("option3"); } } Not the prettiest bit of code, but at least it's not impossible, if you really want to do this.
I have been waiting for the ability to tail the logs from the web console. This is a great release.
You're certainly painting a far darker picture than what I'm used to at my job. I work 4 days a week and have 1 free day (Monday) to spend with my 2yr old. I don't ever need to work in the evening or in weekends. If I'm sick I stay in bed and don't do any work. If I didn't sleep very well, I can just work from my home. I start at 8 am because I'm up anyway, our son doesn't know how to sleep in yet. I usually leave around 16.30. I guess it depends on your employer as well as your own attitude. If you're that person who never says no, because he's afraid to lose his job, you're the one they're always going to ask to work overtime. It took me a few years of experience to grow a spine like that, but when you do, you'll be more respected and generally have a better working career.
Is this just a application server, competitive with tomcat and jetty? I haven't followed this project. I'm building a stack on top of jetty/jpa (hibernate implementation)/h2 right now, is this a project I should investigate for the application server. To be honest, I like Jetty, I'm on 9.2+, it's fast, no complaints.
How is it not like GWT? It compiles Java to JS.
GWT doesn't need applets or a browser java plugin. 
I don't think it compiles Java to JavaScript. I think it fund byte code on a JVM that is implemented in JavaScript. Not sure i actually understand what the heck it does. 
What i meant was its not like GWT in that it doesn't just compile Java to JavaScript. I think it actually runs Java on a JVM that is implemented in JavaScript (i.e. no plugin needed). I could be wrong ...
[citation needed] As far as I can see it's just a GWT clone.
It says it does on the Getting Started page. The Bck2Brwsr project which DukeScript relies on takes compiled Byte Code and either pre-converts it to JS or does a JIT conversion to JS with a JVM implemented in JS. GWT instead takes Java Source and compiles it to JS. Its a different model. And I'm not so sure how well it will work for real work. You seem to not have access to the JS ecosystem and I'd suspect alot of the Java ecosystem is closed off also. Not to mention the total lack of dev documentation. Bck2Brwsr itself also looks very immature. It also looks like it has no RPC framework which I think is the big GWT feature that it provides pretty transparent BackEnd-FrontEnd communications all in Java. FULL DISCLOSURE: I program with GWT at Google.
Sounds like "unlimited data."
Yeah, if it is compiling to JavaScript it seems like a sort of GWT copy that is not even worth pursuing. I'm curious, do you plan on switching from GWT to AngularJS? Do you think GWT will be on the decline and Java folks will just be learning JavaScript more and more with the advent of AngularJS and the likes?
Honestly that stuff is beyond my pay grade. I'm involved in a tiny part of a much bigger product so I pretty much use whatever tech I'm told to. :-P
What would be really cool is if I could take my Java FX apps and compile them to iOS, Android and HTML 5.
Sorry to paint a darker picture. You're lucky to have Monday free. But there's the thing: how would you feel if you were required to come to work each and every Monday from next week onwards? Yeah, you can change jobs, but that may not always be the best move (maybe you won't find any other that pays the same thing, or you won't find a job where you can have free Mondays).
Is there a job market for JavaFX? It doesn't seem to have much adoption as far as I can tell. If you want to deploy to disparate platforms like iOS and Android and desktop browsers etc you are better of using Javascript / HTML5 nowadays. Bite the bullet and learn JavaScript! JavaScript might be a little less painful when ECMA6 comes out. In the meantime you can use things like JQuery and AngularJS to make it tolerable. You can use Apache Cordova / PhoneGap to package your HTML5/JavaScript app for iOS and Android. The Ionic framework looks sweet too.
I know JavaScript, I just don't like it!
There isn't any server that comes close to Wildfly. Especially with the features that Wildfly 9 has coming down the pipe.
Same here. I'm a Java Developer primarily, but I just learned AngularJS which is interesting. I just think JavaScript apps seem kind of frail. Especially if a large team is collaborating on the codebase. JavaScript is so loose and flexible that you can have 10 guys writing code in 10 ways that look entirely different. And with the loose typing and language ambiguity it seems like it could be really easy to have a lot of bugs that you don't know about until its too late.
I haven't used Jetty before, but Wildfly is a full application server rather than a servlet container like Jetty and Tomcat. It is primarily a competitor to other app servers like Weblogic and Websphere. However, because of its modular class loading, it boots up as fast as Tomcat and Jetty when your code only needs a servlet container. Personally, I don't see a reason to ever use Tomcat again. A full Java EE server when you need it and if you don't, it is just a plain servlet container. The best of both worlds.
Generics are erased at runtime, so no class definition will be availabe statically. That is, there is no way of knowing what T is. However, if an object stored as T is not null, you can ask that object what class it is. So showType might be as simple as: if (ob != null) System.out.println (ob.getClass().toString()); Edit: To do this properly (but likely too advanced for this assignment) and to allow for null objects, you can force your class to accept the class definition: public Gen (T obj, Class &lt;T&gt; objClazz) If you enforce that objClazz is never null, you can always retrieve the type of T by just returning objClazz. Edit x 2: You can solve this very safely by using reflection, without modifying the API of Gen, I can explain more on that if needed.
If you're the smartest guy in the room, you're in the wrong room.
Or you could print Void.TYPE when the object is null. It's not pretty, but the primitive type "void" cannot be passed to the constructor as an argument, so it would work.
Exactly! I've read "Javascript: The Good Parts" cover to cover a few times, I have worked jQuery tons and have done a teeny tiny bit with Angular. I totally get it... I just don't like it at all. Every time my IDE doesn't know what to do after I hit a dot I just sigh and wonder why our tooling has regressed. Or I get a runtime TypeError or something like that. I feel the same about Python (although it's a lot better about giving errors, even if they are at runtime...). As a matter of fact I don't mind either language so much in terms of straight syntax, but I really miss static typing a lot.
Not to derail, but thanks for allowing me to stumble on the next topic about partial class support. I've been looking at what implementations of this would look like intermittently for a few months. Glad to see others are too. http://mail.openjdk.java.net/pipermail/discuss/2014-November/003607.html
I'm not familiar with the frameworks used, but by the looks of it this would be vulnerable to SQL injection (Google that if you're unsure what it means). In other words: what happens if you try to log in with the username `' OR 1=1;--`? https://github.com/b3zman41/school-store/blob/master/src/com/bezman/servlet/Login.java
I would implement this as an OutputStream, implementing write(int), and adding a writeBit(boolean). A trivial but non-performant implementation would simply have write call writeBit eight times, once for each bit. The writeBit method would simply OR the bits into an internal field, writing it to the underlying stream whenever the internal counter reached 8 bits. There should also be some kind of method to pad a partial byte (e.g. three unwritten bits) and flush it to the output stream. 
Pick up my project: http://goldchest.sourceforge.net/main.php
One should read something like [CERT Secure Coding Standard for Java](https://www.securecoding.cert.org/confluence/display/java/The+CERT+Oracle+Coding+Standard+for+Java) before exposing any of their Java web apps to the Net. (You don't have to buy any of CERT books. From the above link, just click through to Rules and Coding Guidelines - these are wikis.)
To quote a fixed price, you need a reasonably detailed and fixed specification, yes. But if it's a fairly simple and small app, and you are not an expert in Objective-C programming, I'd suggest that you do it for learning and reputation points alone. Make sure to negotiate that *after the successful delivery* you will be able to include that app in your portfolio and that your teacher will act as a reference account. 
Just a tip. Its a good idea to avoid committing your IDE specific files to the repo. In this case .idea/ and the .iml file
You're right that I'm not an expert. Also, I would be using Swift for this project. Need to get my ten thousand hours in to call myself an expert. Also, how do I charge for something that might require a server which costs monthly cash?
Robovm can compile javaFX apps to IOS. It can also do Android, but it's mostly advertised for iOS
Is there any benchmark that compare spring boot under tomcat vs. Jetty vs. Undertow? 
Do you mean JavaScript and not Java?
A lot of serialization/deserialization frameworks, notably Jackson, require a no-arg constructor. This is so they can initialize the new object and set properties as it see's fit.
techempower does performance benchmarks of servers including tomcat, jetty, and undertow, but not thru boot. 
&gt; Immutability is new I think you meant that the idea of immutability as a positive (4) is pretty new. The whole idea of 7 is the fuzzy line between Ivory tower and practical mud.
Wildfly = new name for the Jboss Application server
How's undertow easy of use and management compared to tomcat? I might use it for our next project but I always have this worry feeling about a new shiny tech. 
OracleJDK isn't as integrated as OpenJDK. I wrote a blog post about all the postinstall stuff that OracleJDK doesn't do that OpenJDK does - http://blog.osdev.org/java/2014/04/22/jdk-alternatives.html
How urgent is your need to find work as a Java programmer? If the answer is "not very", I'd skip the courses and spend some of your time building a pet project  and use tomcat+Spring MVC. It's pretty much overtaken pure J2EE in most places I've worked.
The client wants it in Java....don't know why
That would suck, but that's not really going to happen. Both because it's in my contract and because I would tell them they're shit out of luck. Maybe you live in a country where employees are treated like shit, I live in a country where employees are treated with dignity. And I don't even live in Finland where it's a manager's responsibility to not let any employee work overtime. You're basically forced out of the office at 5 pm there; you get a lot of free days if you're having a child, it's very employee friendly. I guess there are lots of good and lots of bad employers out there. You obviously have bad experiences and I have some as well. I switched jobs about 2 years ago and very happy I did. Not everyone will be better off starting their own business and working 80 hours a week.
What are good places to look for ideas for fairly large projects. Or do you (or anyone else) have any ideas of your own?
Only get the first certificate and apply for junior dev positions. Some employers (consultancy firms) like it when you get more certifications, and they'll pay for them and let you study during work hours. Most employers aren't interested. Once you have work experience on an actual project on your resume, the certifications become almost meaningless. Rockstar developers generally don't have any of them. As to your ps: A full stack developer gets more interesting projects, but there is more to know than one person can learn in a life time, so you will end up specializing in something, but it's way too early for you to have to make that choice. 
Don't build a huge project. Build a small project and work on every aspect of it. 
I've seen Roo on one project at my current job to quickly generate the basic CRUD part of an application. I floated in and out of that project but I think the general opinion was that there was a significant amount of 'black magic' going on that we didn't quite understand, which was fine when everything was working but made it difficult when it went wrong.
Indeed. And include atleast a maven POM so you can build/test it. Edit: there aren't any unit tests :( Edit 2: } catch (IOException e) { e.printStackTrace(); } This is not a project for beginners to help on / learn from. 
I'm using it. If you start a new project, then don't stick to JEE. Spring, Tomcat/Jetty, Hazelcast - whatever. But not JEE.
You could use a hashmap to look up the plugin but I'd do that after reading the side bar so you know what this sub reddit is for...
This is good advice, at least it matches my experience. Employers don't care about certs, they care about work experience. Holding one certification or a dozen makes little difference. Take the first job you can get that's even remotely close to what you want and don't stop looking for a new job while you work there, repeat until you get where you want to be. Don't waste time on certs unless a company or position specifically states it's required. They make a lot more money for the cert companies and test centers and training places etc than they ever do for devs.
Can you be more specific with your grievances? I'm on a mobile app but I checked the posts here and saw several questions about java in the other posts before asking mine.
I don't know if i get it, but the IndexOutOfBounds here means you are trying to set a value to a index of the array that doesn't exist. I would put a try-catch to catch the ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException and try to debug from there.
To debug the AIOOBE, you could do something like this: int index = ((Armor)part).getLocation(); try { armor[index] = (Armor)part; } catch (ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException e) { throw new RuntimeException("Tried to access index " + index + " but array has only " + armor.length + " elements", e); }
I cannot give you a clear answer becouse you are not giving me a clear question. Are we talking about a state machine? each byte going in, should invoke a different state depending on last state? Or you need some kind of AST and invoke the command afterwards in some order? Or something simple like /u/kodifies suggested with a Map&lt;Byte, Function&lt;Byte, Void&gt;&gt; ? also, I think referring switch as structure is not accurate. Maybe flow control?
WildFly is indeed the new name for JBoss AS, where "AS" was a qualifier meaning it's an alpha/beta branch for JBoss EAP, with "EAP" being a qualifier meaning it's a production/GA branch. The official reason for the rename is to make it more clear to users, but I think the real reason is to increase the illusion that WildFly and JBoss EAP are two totally different things, where it reality WildFly is just an earlier less stable version (more bugs) of the next EAP release. In a unified version numbering WildFly 8.2 would be called something like JBoss EAP 7-alpha3.
So I'd start with that: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1732259/eclipse-how-to-debug-a-java-program-as-a-jar-file
&gt;TomEE isn't a full EE profile or has support for Java EE 7 (however that both features are in the works). I'm not aware of any ongoing work for TomEE to implement the full profile. They're a Web Profile+ implementation, meaning they implement the entire Web Profile plus a large number of things from the full profile, but not everything. A Java EE 7 (Web Profile+) implementation is quite far already, see http://tomee.apache.org/download/tomee-2.0.0-snapshot.html I tried some of my apps on it (which are mostly EE 6 apps with a few EE 7 features) and they all run. Still, the TomEE developers think they an additional ~8 months before it's ready. I don't know why so much time is still needed, but there you have it ;)
Where do i find the length of armor?
armor.length also I'm guessing you're new to programming so you should probably read some of the basic documentation around java
I've never seen an applicant with certification on their resume and wouldn't really know what it meant either. You should teach yourself servlets, spring, junit at least. Also learn git and familiarize yourself with agile projects. Either way, you won't have trouble finding a job so long as you just understand basic java.
This is the entire program - package Prac03; import java.util.Scanner; public class NumberToWord { public static void main (String[]args){ System.out.println("Enter the number (As an integer): "); Scanner sc = new Scanner(System.in); int number =sc.nextInt(); if (number &lt;= 0){ System.out.println("ERROR - Negative values are not permitted. Please enter a valid value."); } else if (number == 1){ System.out.println ("ONE"); } else if (number == 2){ System.out.println ("TWO"); } else if (number == 3){ System.out.println("THREE"); } else if (number ==4){ System.out.println("FOUR"); } else if (number ==5){ System.out.println("FIVE"); } else if (number ==6){ System.out.println("SIX"); } else if (number ==7){ System.out.println("SEVEN"); } else if (number ==5){ System.out.println("EIGHT"); } else if (number ==5){ System.out.println("NINE"); } else System.out.println ("ERROR - Please enter a value between 1-9."); When I test it and enter the value "1" it still says that negative values are not permitted because of that if statement I created. The program does work as intended in that it outputs the word corresponding to numbers from 1-9, but it still outputs like this - *Enter the number (As an integer): 1 ONE ERROR - Negative values are not permitted. Please enter a valid value.* 
Sorry about bad semantics. Basically, if a value is X then I need to invoke method X. There is no state to worry about outside of method X, they are self contained and the correlation between value and method is static once the program has loaded the plugins. I won't know the specific class method X is in but I can know a parent or interface so I think a hash map can work if that is a good way.
Are you sure this is the entire program? Copy-pasted and worked well for me.
"){} should probably just be ")} not sure how that excerpt you posted compiles...
Okay, i have the source code which is mostly .java files, how do i know which file will have armor.length?
? Where are those?
First of all, your last 2 line number ==5 for Eight and Nine, should it be == 8 and == 9? Second, it seems like the code works. Can you show where it goes wrong? 
The try/catch methods in here are great. If it's in a loop I recommend also printing the index variable to console so you can watch what it's doing as it loops. Helps with debugging whatever's sending the out-of-range value to the array - sometimes in each iteration you accidentally multiply a variable by 4 when you meant to multiply by 2 or something like that. System.out.println("Location variable is: " + ((Armor)part).getLocation); armor[((Armor)part).getLocation()] = (Armor)part;
Im trying to open eclipse now but it just says "exit code 13"....
That's the name of the package in Java.
It didn't go wrong. It just outputted an error message below the correct output for some reason. It worked fine after I copy and pasted it from Reddit, so I can only assume it was a formatting error.
Glad it works now, best of luck.
If you got problems with eclipse, the second answer suggests you use JRE with arguments and then connect debugger to there
There are a lot of ways to learn java. I would recommend searching www.it-ebooks.com and search for some java books. There are some classes on iTunesU(that address java and android). If you search around, you will be overwhelmed by amount of decent free resources. It is imperative to do the exercises or it will be difficult to transition to Android. 
You could use reflection, which while not very fast is not that slow anymore thanks to improvements on the JVM. Sure, you will loose some level of "safety", i.e. early detection of errors in your code, but that is going to be the same with any type of dynamic solution. If you really think it is going to be a performance bottleneck you could experiment with runtime code generation, using ASM, or something (arguably?) simpler like Javassist. If you showed us a more concrete example I might be able to point you to more concrete solutions.
Perfect time to use a switch. private void printNumber(int number) { System.out.println(numberToText(number)); } private String numberToText(int number) { switch (number) { case 1: return "ONE"; break; case 2: return "TWO"; break; case 3: return "THREE"; break; case 4: return "FOUR"; break; case 5: return "FIVE"; break; case 6: return "SIX"; break; case 7: return "SEVEN"; break; case 8: return "EIGHT"; break; case 9: return "NINE"; break; default: return "ERROR - Pease enter a value between 1-9"; } } Or even cleaner. private static final int LOWER_BOUND = 1; String[] numbers = new String(){ "ONE","TWO","THREE", "FOUR","FIVE","SIX", "SEVEN","EIGHT","NINE" }; private void printNumber(int number) { System.out.println(numberToText(number)); } private String numberToString(int number) { if (number &lt; LOWER_BOUND || number &gt; numbers.length) return "ERROR - Please enter a value between " + LOWER_BOUND + "-" + numbers.length; return numbers[number-1]; }
actually, you would probably map from some ID to a tuple of CancellableRunnable and Future. That's entirely up to the use-case in question, sometimes one may make more sense than the other. As for the run method not throwing an exception - yes, that's exactly why you need to go through extra effort in order to cancel your thread.
I find this very inspiring and refreshing. I also like to think about objects as something live and good looking (like those ducks in the article). Tired of that boring factories, singletons, readers and writers :)
Most of that comments were like "yeah, we need singletons because we are used to them, don't tell us they are evil"... not the right place for such articles, I guess
armor? or array? lol
Arrays start at index 0, and end at index of length -1. So.. Either remove the equal sign from the variable check in the loop, or subtract 1 from the index. This fixes about 90% of my indexoutofbounds exceptions. If this doesn't work then you'll need to put some specific code. To give you an idea of what's Happening an array is like a matrix that holds values of a given type, lets pretend it's holding Integers, then an array of length 4 might look something like this conceptually: [ 0 | 3 | 10 | 8] I've put 0 at index 0. 3 at index 1. 10 is at index 3, 8 at index 4. Now if I'm going through this array in a loop, if I ever try to access index 5 I will get an out of bounds exception because array[5] doesn't exist. 5 is out of bounds. That's why subtracting 1 from your check variable or removing an equal sign from the equality check will reduce the loop iterations by 1, and typically fixes the out of bounds exception.
See /r/javahelp.
If you can, run the code within a debugger. or attach a debugger. Once you've done this, set a break point on the constructor(s) for the class ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException. It should stop on your problem, and you should be able see the index that's causing the problem. You may find other places in the code where this problem occurs, but where the exception is handled in a catch() {} statement. In general this should no occur because it's an awful approach. But hey people do odd things! In general there should be actual code which checks for array out of bounds stuff. This code will run much more quickly than throwing an exception. So to expand on galaktos's example: int index = ((Armor)part).getLocation(); if(index &lt; 0) { // do something here because you will have an exception soon } if(index &gt;= armor.length ) { // do something here because otherwise you will do have an exception } try { armor[index] = (Armor)part; } catch (ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException e) { throw new RuntimeException("Tried to access index " + index + " but array has only " + armor.length + " elements", e); } Note the checking of the "index" variable to ensure it's within the bounds of the array "armor"
They define a contract. Every object implementing the interface must implement all of its methods. This allows us to use objects of different classes interchangeably, as long as they implement the same interface.
Good case of a company trying to get free (virtually) work and ideas. There's only a few reasons to do one of these hack-a-thons: 1. The prizes are awesome, maybe like 1000 + for the winning team? 2. Its for a worthy cause. I worked on one that was an app for tracking land mines and reporting them for disposal. Non profit stuff is awesome too. 3. The tech challenge is interesting and/or difficult. Writing a crappy app for a credit card company is not that. Things like this actually make me dislike the companies behind it. Makes them seem like they are too cheap to pay for developers.
I love roo. Point it at a database backing a crud app and generate a management app for your crud app in minutes.
Think of a scenario with car manufacturers. An interface would have the generic thing that cars do. So all cars must drive, reverse, make a sound etc. These would all be methods but without method bodies. You would then create a class say BMW that implements that interface, BMW now HAS to use the methods declared in the interface but it can put it's own logic into the method bodies. You could then create a class say AUDI which again implements the interface and all the methods but it can be completely different logic from the BMW. 
Yes, but the only thing i can make out of it is that there's something wrong at line 1706 of Unit.java. java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException: 5 at mekhq.campaign.unit.Unit.initializeParts(Unit.java:1706) at mekhq.campaign.Campaign.createCampaignFromXMLFileInputStream(Campaign.java:3586) at mekhq.gui.dialog.DataLoadingDialog$Task.doInBackground(DataLoadingDialog.java:188) at mekhq.gui.dialog.DataLoadingDialog$Task.doInBackground(DataLoadingDialog.java:108) at javax.swing.SwingWorker$1.call(Unknown Source) at java.util.concurrent.FutureTask.run(Unknown Source) at javax.swing.SwingWorker.run(Unknown Source) at java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(Unknown Source) at java.util.concurrent.ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(Unknown Source)
What loop are you referirng to and where can i find it?
I have eclipse, but how do you run "code within a debugger" or attach a debugger?
I'll assume you have an eclipse project with the code loaded into it. If not ask about that. Once you have a project open. You will need to do two things. 1) Set the break point. For eclipse it has a feature to break on exception. a) First navigate to debug perspective. (Window menu -&gt;perspectives -&gt; debug ). b) in the upper right pane, click on the "breakpoints" tab. c) in the upper right area of the pane look for a small tool bar with "J!" in it. The tool tip if you hover should be "Add Java Exception Breakpoint" Click this. d) a dialog should appear with all the exceptions that eclipse knows about. Start typing for your "ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException". Select it. 2) Start your program in "debug" mode. You will need to find the class which has the main method. I don't know what this is from your description. When that one class is open in the editor, you can do "Run (menu) -&gt; Debug as -&gt; Java Application. If your program requires arguments you may need to add those in the "Debug Configuration....." section. IN theory the program should not run and then "break" when it tries to create the ArrayINdexOutOfBOundsException. You should now find in the "Variables" tab of the upper right hand pane: a) the values of all the fields and variables at that point in time. And in the editor pane: a) the code causing the problem. There is also, in the upper right, a "debug" pane which will show the stack trace in the thread where the exception occurred. This is a list of program locations where one methodcalled into another. You can click back in these if that's helpful. good luck!
I'm referring to any generic loop. I just made one up for illustration. Here is a generic example. int sum = 0; int[] intArray= new int[]{0,3,10,8}; for(int i = 0; i &lt;= intArray.length(); i++) { sum +=intArray[i]; } System.out.println("Sum: " + sum); Can you see why this will produce an index out of bounds exception? and why either changing the condition to &gt; instead of &gt;= or subtracting 1 from the length in the condition check will fix this out of bounds? 
I tried not to! In fact /.idea is in the .gitignore so I have no idea how it was committed. 
It may not be in a loop, loops are just a very common place to get index out of bounds since &gt;= vs &gt; can cause this, or simply not subtracting by 1. Change if(type &gt; -1) to if(type &gt; -1 &amp;&amp; type &lt; EquipmentType.armorNames.length() ) It's the same idea. In an array, you cannot access elements that do not exist. If you pass in the integer n for your t parameter and EquipmentType.armorNames array is of length n (that is to say it holds n names or whatever) then you will get an index out of bounds exception because the last element is going to be at length -1 since the first one is at 0. So with real numbers, if there are only 4 armor types, and you pass in the number 4 for t, you are going to get an index out of bounds exception because: * Armor 1: Index 0 * Armor 2: Index 1 * Armor 3: Index 2 * Armor 4: Index 3 Note that there is nothing at Index 4.. Does this help? If you set a breakpoint and run the debugger you can see what values all your variables have at any given point, so you can see exactly what's being passed in and then figure out when it got that value.
When you go to a restaurant and receive a menu, the menu lists the dishes that are available. But the piece of paper that is the menu is not the actual food--it's a representation of the food. But it does lead to the expectation that anything you see on the menu had better damned well be available--if not you would be disappointed. In Java, an interface is like the restaurant menu. The implementation of that interface is like the actual dishes you would eat.
I'd say probably because they want to teach more about programming: 1. Ios because "everyone" has an iphone 2.Web technology because who doesnt want a website and 3.python because its easy. Java and C++ are more coplicated and they want it all to be simple
The program is trying to access array field [5] greater than the array size. The location, the part is trying to put itself in, does not exists. There are &lt; 6 armor slots.
Do a heartbeat message one every n seconds. 
this is a bad description (not really), but only because that's probably what he's already read 100 times. You basically wrote it how it's always written. need to use metaphors my man
For ignoring directories it's either .idea/ or just .idea. /.idea is the wrong way I presume
client should handle it and resent if it doesn't get a response. 
O.K. Then you'd want to accomplish your task using javascript, not Java. Java and javascript are completely unrelated technologies. javascript is typically used for fancy graphics within a browser. You need to ask for help within another subreddit if you haven't already done so.
I have not. Can you please direct me to another subreddit that would help out. 
Interface describes a set of services that an implementing class must provide. Any number of *unrelated (through inheritance)* classes may implement the interface. The interface allows you to treat those classes uniformly *as if* they had the same type (which is the interface type). 
You'll have to write the implementation stacking the generic type `E` and then instantiate it for the type `Character`. If you need help doing that, head over to /r/javahelp
Okay, looking at line 1706, the code is armor[((Armor)part).getLocation()] = (Armor)part; Does that mean that its trying to insert a location that is greater than 5 into the array, and thats why its hanging?
&gt; TomEE does have TomEE Plus (full profile) Plus is not a full profile, but a Web Profile plus various elements (the most useful) from the full profile. 
Arrays, are starting with [0] so [5] is the sixth armor location. The array is probably 5 long and has no field [5]. A 5 long array can be accessed with 0,1,2,3,4. The error exactly states you are trying to insert something at position 5 not &gt;5.
Upvoted for correctness, and commented for emphasis.
How do you know when a message is finished? You have some end character designating the end of the message? On the server side you should probably have a timeout variable to check how long it's waiting for the end of the message. If you wait too long then abort the connection. 
I like this book by Adam Bien: http://realworldpatterns.com/ It's based on Java EE 6, so not as dated as most books and pretty pragmatic
The client continues to send data safely, is the server that stops the readLine()
Dunno, wasn't me. I actually agree that a lot of his content is from his blog. It's genuinely good material and you can always pick up the book If his blog is helpful :)
Contributions are welcome. Especially additions to the set of [supported annotations](https://github.com/uniVocity/univocity-parsers/tree/master/src/main/java/com/univocity/parsers/annotations), and [RowProcessors](https://github.com/uniVocity/univocity-parsers/tree/master/src/main/java/com/univocity/parsers/common/processor) Thanks for supporting our project!
Yeah I see what you mean, definitely more appropriate for inheritance. I was just trying to think of a quick example off the top of my head from what my lecturers have went over, must've got them mixed up! 
 What did you major in? If it was something like computer science/engineering or IS I would think you'd be qualified for an entry level position. Don't put too much weight on certificates ( as someone who interviews candidates like yourself for a top tech company I don't when looking at candidates). What companies are looking for in general for entry level java developers are as follows. Intermediate understanding of the java language ( this is where taking a certificate nay help you however self study via a decent book will be just as valuable). Basic understanding of the software life cycle as well as basic software development principles such as testing ie what is the difference between a unit test and an integration test and why to use each. Get yourself familiar with dependency management and a build tool such as maven or grade. Learn about dependency injection and frameworks such as spring that provide them. Some ORM knowledge such as how to do a basic mapping in hibernate is good. I I would also say having a small project on GitHub with the above is a huge plus. Also make sure when sharing a project you follow best practices I.e. Testing, documentation, etc... Most importantly I'd say enthusiasm during the interview process is a differentiating factor a candidate that wants to learn new things and cares about doing a good job are qualities I look for. Best of luck I think with some self study you'll have no problem getting a developer position.
1. You would be able to change the defaults. Not just change, but even fine-tune them in a similar fashion to HTTPSwitchBoard. 2. People are already using NoScript/HTTPSwitchBoard/uMatrix without breaking websites. 3. This browser is really not suitable for everyday users (not until usability woes are ironed out). 4. This browser will most definitely not work with all websites. The main use-case currently is casual browsing.
Who is your target audience? I'm not trying to be a jerk, just trying to understand what gap you guys are trying to fill. A couple things to note from someone who's been in the software industry for 20 years: 1. Users don't tend to change their defaults. Advanced users sometimes do (developers, for example, might) 2. Users get frustrated quickly. If things are pretty broken right from the start, they'll give up immediately. 3. Privacy is a good focus. It's also a very difficult thing to provide while enabling the web to be used in all its glory. If you're building a browser focused on that, then that's great, but set the expectations early about how limiting of an experience that may be. There are also a lot of things that already exist in this space (DuckDuckGo, Tor browser, tuning your current browser to disable these features, etc.) You say the use case is casual browsing, but I think you underestimate how many sites will be broken by these defaults. It sounds like a frustrating experience to me and that sounds like the opposite of casual browsing. I think your main goal should be to find a focus (e.g. extreme privacy), set expectations, and see if there's an interest. If there is, then build something. EDIT: You may also focus less on the "The JVM/Java doesn't suck, so don't hate on us for picking it." I think your points on why Java is good from a privacy standpoint are valid. I think your counterpoints for the lower level languages are less so, but regardless, Java is a perfectly fine choice here and your users shouldn't have to care what you built it in so long as it works well.
Can I just point out Java's sandboxing is terrible? A good majority of the JRE security fixes that come out every quarter are preventing sandbox escape. The SecurityManager design/API is great. But when it is implemented, many pitfalls show up. The way the SecurityManager works is by looking a the call stack to determine where the code that is executing came from. Then it can grant/deny permissions for it to do things. However, there are lots of places in (trusted) code A that call a piece of (possibly unsecure) code B, get a return value, then try and do something with it. A this point, the only piece of code in the call stack is A and the security manager grants it all permissions that A gets. Also, this means that users of your browser not only have to update the browser, they have to update the version of Java that it's based on. What JRE are you building on top of anyway? If you going to use the Oracle Java implementation (closed source), how do you plan to verify that it doesn't leak information some other way?
You're *setting* the number inside the if clause because you're using = instead of ==. You're not multiplying the number by 0.5 because you're not assigning the outcome of that multiplication. And if you want to increase something by 50%, dividing it by 2 is probably not the way to go. Please fix the formatting of your post, formatting help is under every comment box.
Funnily enough, I've been itching for a good pure-Java browser implementation for a *long* while (like... 15 years). The use cases are odd, but fairly frequent: A "good enough" large document renderer. I have had many projects over my career that have required rendering custom data structures to on-screen reports. We've had XSL:FO for a while, but let's face it: it's a pain in the backside to use. The ability to feed in a CSS/HTML document and render it to an image or a PDF in-process would be *golden*. Another fairly frequent case is the rendering of document previews. I frequently have to present lists of end-user documents in a thumbnail stream. If I can make a passable HTML DOM representation of the documents (which I usually can), a lightweight server-side renderer would be a huge boon, especially if I can disable client-side javascript, and restrict the network calls used to load external resources. That being said, we already have the Java FX webview component, and it's a huge step in the right direction.
Hello, my advise is to take the Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer when it comes out and stick to that, the others certs are not worth it. I would advise an initial ramp-up based on technical books, and then a side project once a certain level of understanding is reached. You will spare a lot of time and money if you follow this path, instead of the certs. Start by buying and reading these two fundamental Java books: Thinking in Java and Effective Java, this should get you well started. Then Frameworks, one for each layer: buy Java Persistence with Hibernate, it covers both Hibernate and JPA. Then the service layer, I advise Spring in Action. The presentation layer, though choice because the fragmentation there is huge. I would adivse you to look into the Spring integration with JSF, maybe using something like Primefaces. Bear in mind that a Java/Javascript approach for the frontend is getting traction with JS frameworks like Angular. But I would not focus on that at this stage. I don't know any book on JSF that I could recommend, the ones I read where quite bad. Check the Primefaces showcase it has lots of examples. With the 3 layers covered, you really need to learn build tools: stick to Maven only initially. With a solid language primer, one framework for each layer and a build tool, you are ready to start your side-project. Build a small GUI with 4 or 5 screens that writes data to a relational database, I recommend Postgresql. You mention you prefer to be a backend developer: replace the GUI with some XML or JSon web services as that is the presentation equivalent in the backend. Check SOAP and REST then instead of GUI frameworks. For your question on specialization, depends on where you work. In London, Paris and San Francisco I think you can get away with that level of specialization, but what I see in general is that employers want a Java developer and dont really make the distinction, I see people frequently doing both. So the norm I've seen in my projects is full stack developers that are more confortable in the backend but can also do frontend using frameworks like, JSF or GWT those are the two most popular ones.
Usually the solution that goes forward like in the Java world is the one of lowest resistance and highest backward compatibility. This is how Java managed to keep itself relevant and now maybe more than ever 20 years later. I am under the impression that web standards like components, templates, etc. and Ecmascript6 in general will be the future of the web because they build on existing knowledge base and features and don't require a new depart from the established, while at the same time solving the same problems. In 2015 we should get the first fully compatible ES6 browsers.
If you don't need Javascript and the rest of the browser baggage, there are a few existing alternatives out there. There's FlyingSaucer and the more recently maintained NeoFlyingSaucer. We initially tried building on them, but realized that Javascript and the rest of the browser cruft requires a ground-up design.
But isn't that true of any platform? Your OS has bugs too, for example. One can only hope that those bugs will get fixed over a period of time, and the modules built on top of them can be ~~relegated~~ relieved of that responsibility. Software upgrades at all levels are a necessary evil. About the JRE, we don't have any special requirements. OpenJDK will work just fine and it is completely open-source. Edit: Forgot to address this: &gt; However, there are lots of places in (trusted) code A that call a piece of (possibly unsecure) code B, get a return value, then try and do something with it. A this point, the only piece of code in the call stack is A and the security manager grants it all permissions that A gets. I am not sure I follow your concern here. Are you hinting at capability based security? There is a capability based implementation for Java called [E](http://www.erights.org/), but I haven't explored the topic in detail.
Trace it. This means: write down the initial values of all variables on paper, then step through the function as if you were the computer, adjusting these values as you proceed until the function returns. By putting yourself in the position of the computer, evaluating each command one by one, you will see how the function does what it does and you will arrive at the correct result.
Right, but I do not understand how 4 is the answer for the example. Do I evaluate if y==0 by dividing 12/4? Or is y==0 mean if the remainder of 12/4 is 0?
What sucks is this is extremely common. Three different sites had [eye tracking done](http://i.imgur.com/shS1ek4.jpg) and the sideborders are ignored. Maybe if some rules showed up in the comment box before typing anything. 
Without opening a holy war, I looked at flying saucer, but the LGPL tends to make my clients run away screaming. :(
Neither. You clearly need to read your textbook or course notes again. What you are saying is not what your code is saying. I cannot learn the language for you, you have to do that for yourself so that you know what the syntax represents. For now, you don't seem to have gotten this far yet so I cannot really help. Take a step back, review what you should have learned earlier, then try again.
Having Lists of values would be pretty awesome, no more excessive box/unbox nonsense.
100-120k in my area, cost of living if you believe CNN that is about 150-170k or so in SV area. Seems legit.
Our target audience is advanced users, *as of now*. Perhaps sometime in the future, web-sites which require a lot of features (web-apps in short) could provide a list of permissions (just as mobile apps do before installation) and the user could allow them with a single click. Well, as a user of NoScript and uMatrix, I do realize how many websites get broken when these features are disabled. It's actually not all that bad, and I am able to manage by permitting the features on an as-need basis. However, that is entirely biased, based on my browsing habits and given that I am an advanced user.
Why are you waiting for release to open source the code?
&gt; I am not sure I follow your concern here. Are you hinting at capability based security? No, I am describing the implementation of the SecurityManager and how there are likely to be a ton of very subtle bugs when you rely on it to do "proper sandboxing".
If code B returns some sensitive data that A misuses, then yes, I see your point. I agree that the security of data itself has to be manually audited and the Security Manager doesn't help here. This is where a capability based system might help; but I haven't fully investigated that. With that in mind, the Security Manager is still a major improvement over a bare-bones native app.
The code is in a state of flux right now. There are major rewrites and refactorings going on. We are having a tough time coordinating merge requests between our own team members because of frequent merge conflicts. We also have a large patch-set of unreviewed changes. At this point, we are simply not geared up for community involvement.
I just want to make mention of this browser that's not very known called Xombrero (formerly xxxterm), that I think does cover at least part of what you're aiming for. https://opensource.conformal.com/wiki/xombrero https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xombrero
&gt; If code B returns some sensitive data that A misuses, then yes, I see your point. Misuse? How about calling toString() leading to an exploit? Behold: http://www.contextis.com/resources/blog/java-pwn2own/ What I want to emphasize is that the SecurityManager framework has many, many subtle issues. It's definitely better than nothing. But it may not be as good as your native OS sandboxing.
But i think the net effect is that you will (perhaps inadvertently) be targeting "conservative users" instead of "advanced users". That being said, I understand not wanting to take responsibility for the effects of javascript on the user until you get your feet under you code-base wise.
wow, thanks! This is indeed a very good match for what we are aiming for. The only major difference is our use of a high-level language and runtime.
Why the fuck did they lump C, C++, and C# all together?
me too. Not unheard of paying developers 130k ~ 140k. Depends on the location and sector.
Use the debugger, Luke.
I think that would depend on several factors including what you really classify as a "senior" developer. 
Alright but my question is how do i actually run the debugger correctly? I have the source code of the program extracted to a folder. I imported the files as a "file system" and i have unit.java now and set a breakpoint at line 1706. How do i then run it? The run/debug options are not working...
Only if you work in New York City or Silicon Valley--but the cost of living in those places is much higher.
You should try something like [JBoss Studio](http://www.jboss.org/products/devstudio/overview/) or [Spring Tool Suite](http://spring.io/tools). They are eclipse but packaged with some useful plugins you may need. Netbeans is also really really good (I use it), especially for someone new to Java. It's basically ready out of the box, no plugins. Easiest to learn too.
IntelliJ has a power saving mode which switches off a lot of the more resource heavy features. It's worth a second try with this turned on to see if it performs adequately.
Does this still apply if the program itself is a .exe file and the source code is just extracted from it? There is no .jar file (unless the .exe IS the .jar file). There is a specific action that occurs in the program that is causing an error and i want to debug it. Should i be running the .exe first, then attaching a debugger somehow? If yes, how do i do this?
Eclipse is used only to debug a Java program, which means files that end in .java. Eclipse itself on Windows runs as an .exe but it has no ability to debug an .exe. You cannot use Eclipse to debug that.
Also i dont get the red X errors. The first one in unit.java says "package mekhq.campaign.unit;" and "The declared package...does not match the expected packge campaign.unit". What does this mean? I can see campaign.unit right there...
But the .exe program im trying to debug is a java program...
Let's say you want to play a game (write a program). The game is to imitate a dog's barking. You start by writing down what a dog does according to your own imagination (designing an interface). Then you proceed to act like a dog according to your description (implementing the interface). Then you invite your friends Alice and Bob to play. Alice and Bob start barking. But they bark differently than you (different implementation of the same interface). Alice's twin sister Alison comes in and start barking just like Alice (two instances of the same class implementing the dog interface). 
Which sectors pay more?
Also i unzipped the .classs file from the .exe file and tried to open the main one, but eclipse is giving an error : The Class File Viewer cannot handle the given input ('org.eclipse.ui.ide.FileStoreEditorInput').
Busy ones.
I don't think that is possible. Maybe the .exe is launching the .jar 
As a data point: my rent in Silicon Valley is $3000 per month.
In my area (Minneapolis), senior level developers pretty much top out at around $90k. Project management, etc., are how you make more money.
Canada checking in -- the difference is not so much around the language you develop in, but in your level of understanding of the rest of the stack, various platforms to integrate with, etc. That being said, I've seen decent Java devs range from $45k to $130k CDN. 
If you're surfing the web daily with JS and cookies disabled, I'm pretty sure you actually don't know what you're doing.
I second IntelliJ. If it's at all possible, prefer that over Eclipse. Any Java developer investing a full day trying to go with it will realize that it's the better IDE. Eclipse has its unique selling points, too, but imho they are not relevant to the average Java developer. As an IJ plugin, I recommend SexyEditor, which allows to show images in the editor background, at chosen opacity, and optionally rotating with others as a slideshow. Sounds like it reflects my "Looks better!" thinking in general that leads to me preferring IntelliJ, right? No, it's the better IDE from a *developer* perspective, and I use the background image feature, for example, like this: At work, I used FreeMind to make an object tree that I have to develop and put it as a dim background image to guide me and to keep me seeing the big picture. At home, I have my whole Steam screenshot collection randomly rotating, to inspire my hobby development.
Your `Main` class has no need for a "../main/" sub-package. Put it in the root package (ie: `someextension.somepersonorcompany.someproject.Main`). So in your case simply as `sherwood.Main`.
I totally get your drift and agree about the subtle security issues. Some thoughts: 1. About that specific issue it was a bug in sql.DriverManager, not in the security manager. `AccessController.doPrivileged()` is the equivalent of `sudo` and at all points where it is used a careful review of all code paths is required. That should be part of the audit process. 2. The article seems to suggest that JRE standard libs have a bunch of doPrivileged() calls that may be exploited. If any Java application helps throw the spot-light on these problems then I consider the application a contributor to the Java community. 3. Java seems to have done poorly in pwn2Own 2013, but it seems to be the only target that came out standing solid in the [2014 edition](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2014/03/13/pwn2own-day-one-reader-ie-flash-and-firefox-felled-java-left-standing/).
I'd recommend NetBeans...unless you have to develop Java web apps for IBM WebSphere Application Server. That's the one app server that doesn't integrate with NetBeans.
Dallas, TX - 110-120k is normal for devs with 10-15 years of experience. Low cost of living here, as well?
Java's built-in libraries have a [Timer](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/misc/timer.html) class or two. In case you just need a simple "ping" from time to time, you can use this short class I made: http://www.reddit.com/r/javahelp/comments/2n2bio/how_to_terminate_an_object/cm9sq8d
This post is better posted in /r/Javahelp because /r/Java is for: &gt;**News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language** as is clearly stated in the **sidebar** where you would also find: &gt;**Please seek help with Java programming in /r/Javahelp!** **Also:** Don't post screenshots of code. Code should be posted either directly in the post, or on [pastebin.com](http://pastebin.com), or on [gist.github.com](https://gist.github.com). /r/Javahelp has a concise description on [how to post code](http://www.reddit.com/r/javahelp/wiki/code_guides).
They must have used some sort of native compiler to make the .exe.
+1 for NetBeans. Has seen lots of development over the last few years and great not just for Java but C/C++,php, HTML5 etc.
See /r/javahelp.
&gt;I'm pretty sure you actually don't know what you're doing. Ohh really? - I have seen dozen examples of buffer overflow attacks using Java-Script that lead to execution of non authorized code on computer outside the browser. This is main and good reason. For example in August 2013 FBI launched that kind of attack against TOR network (injecting malicious JS code, that executed payload code transferring data about node to FBI servers). - Secondly. I had a "pleasure" to use 128kb 3G internet connection in some less developed countries, and disabling the JavaScript was often **the only** reasonable way to browse the Internet, because of advent of technologies like node.js which are pushing A LOT of operations from server to clients. Problem is that those cool JS libraries are often as big as 1MB, which doesn't seems a lot, but on 128kb link it takes staggering **62 seconds** to download such code, and this is all before actual data or images on site. Currently it is so bad that web-page containing let's say just 30 kB photo and 1kB of text, requires some crazy JS library for some fancy effects that requires 30x more data to download then the image and text we want to read itself... It's like transmitting the book of size of Bible, in order to see "Hello World" on screen. - Last thing is performance: complex JS applications are often run in unlimited loops, and if not forged for precise version of "newest Firefox" they sometimes consume huge amount of CPU time on low-end hardware and older browsers, to the point where computer is unusable. Try to use Facebook on RassberryPi or similar modern but slow CPU, and you will understand what I mean. For cookies: many government agencies around the world are injecting so called "super-cookies" to track users. Sure - there are other ways to track users, even with cookies disabled, but it adds little-bit towards security and privacy. 
How much you pay on tax and other things in US? What is the amount of money you will clearly get?
I have heard that number as well in many forums, namely HN. I hear also 200$ an hour for a senior dev working at startups. I have heard seniors are in the range of 200k, I find it hard to believe it too but I see it mentioned frequently. I think its mostly true but depends really on the area. Probably in major cities which is where all those jobs are anyway. Also you mean as a permanent employee? Because as a freelance the typical gross salary of many freelance Java devs in Europe in in the neighbourhood of 100k, but that is not all salary, that is the gross revenue of the unipersonal company. 
That was a horrible experience on mobile. [Android, nexus 5]
This post is better posted in /r/Javahelp because /r/Java is for: &gt;**News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language** as is clearly stated in the **sidebar** where you would also find: &gt;**Please seek help with Java programming in /r/Javahelp!**
Sorry my crystal orb is at the cleaning service. Where does the armor array come from? Is it always created with a constant size? You either have to learn the basics of java or share way more code.
Agreed. Watch the whole thing, the whole thing is about Java.
Eclipse is good, but also still very easy to mess up if you get too many problematic plugins.
What do you get for that? The cost of living doesn't seem very high in SF or NY, compared to what I'm used to. 
Raleigh, NC - Senior Java developer with &gt;15 years experience, $130k plus 5% 401k matching program. 
Also because it is built in Java. Which has no value types and where cache locality is not a thing. In this case performance impact would be really noticeable.
A closet and lukewarm showers.
I think it is important to have openjdk version 8 on the LTS release, as it will help improve security for a number of users. Hoping this is not too off-topic. If it is, let me know and I will remove it. Edit: I am hoping that someone here might be able to contribute directly, but even those who can't contribute directly (like me), we can atleast vote for the issue to show our interest to the maintainers.
When I lived in Manhattan, my rent was $2,600 but I made $180K.
You need to clarify then. Under no circumstances can a Java program lead to an .exe. 
If you think JavaScript code is bad, you should see what C code is like! So many attacks! Such big binaries! Loops! Yuck!
Okay so...how do i debug it with the source code then?
Can you show "Problems" tab?
Search for a file with "public static void main" and select that file while running the project with "Run as..." -&gt; "Java application" or "Debug as...". Assuming that the project is complete and not part of some bigger application.
Theres one error there that says "Description Resource Path Location Type The project was not built due to "Could not delete '/MekHQ/bin/src'.". Fix the problem, then try refreshing this project and building it since it may be inconsistent MekHQ Unknown Java Problem "
The file MekHQ.java contains this : public static void main(String[] args) { System.setProperty("apple.laf.useScreenMenuBar", "true"); System.setProperty("com.apple.mrj.application.apple.menu.about.name","MekHQ"); //redirect output to log file redirectOutput(); MekHQ.getInstance().startup(); } But i still cannot debug it... Error: Could not find or load main class MekHQ 
&gt; public static void main( String[] args ) Found it but i still cant debug it : http://i.imgur.com/49mLsoR.png
http://i.imgur.com/49mLsoR.png
In http://i.imgur.com/wzJlsRZ.jpg right click on your Eclipse project and run as &gt; run configuration then go into java application and there should be the path to your project and if you hit "search" it should locate the class with the "main" method. In http://i.imgur.com/49mLsoR.png your classes won't be compiled as src is not defined as a source folder to your Java project
Okay, couple housekeeping chores. On the right, close the "Welcome" tab. Then, close the "Task List" tab and then for now the "Outline" tab. (They're just taking up screen real estate for no reason. I do see the main method and the presence of MekHQ.getInstance.startup() agrees with the notion that it's the first domino to fall. Click to the immediate left of line 171 in the blue area until you see a blue dot appear, indicating that you've successfully placed a breakpoint. Then, click once on MekHQ (to make sure it's the active Java class) and then click on the Run pull-down menu and then go down until you reach "Debug As" and it should show "Debug As ... Java Application". Take a screen cap of it at that point. Since your Java class has a main method and does not appear to have any errors, that should work. Take a screen cap of it then.
I (sort of) disagree on the immutability part. No, that's not because I'm a luddite (though I'm over 30 and probably am one), but because there are things that are easier expressed with mutable state. For example, let's say you have a matrix, a measure over the matrix that you want to optimize and a set of operations to modify the matrix. Now you could make your operations create new matrices, but that would become very memory-intensive very soon (read: crash). Now if you just make the matrix modifyable, you can do simple hill-climbing to get a good solution with reasonable amounts of time/memory. Note that this is just an example. Even within the matrix, perhaps the dimensions, etc. stay th e same and may be immutable, which of course makes sharing between threads easier. As always, cost-benefit ratio applies.
Still complaining there is no main type : http://i.imgur.com/qQqiWQu.png
No dice : http://i.imgur.com/VF4Ofda.png
Ah thanks
I see what the problem is. Notice that the "bin" folder above has an orange hash sign superimposed over the folder? That's eclipse's signal that it believes that folder to be a source folder. Now, notice that your actual "src" folder below lacks that orange hash symbol. So, Eclipse doesn't recognise your "src" folder as a Source folder. Here's how to fix it. Right-mouse click on MekHQ (the blue project) and choose, at the bottom, "Properties". Then choose "Java Build Path", then the "Source" tab. Inside the Source tab it needs to know that your "src" folder is the location of Java Source. So, either Add in the path to your "src" folder there and if it complains, remove what's aready there. If it gives you grief, please send a screen cap. You're almost there.
Is the MekHQ class itself public? Like: public class MekHQ { public static void main(String[] args) { ... } }
Small townhouse. If I lived in San Francisco then I'd be lucky to get a small 1bd apartment with that.
Haha, well that's not a problem since at this point I'm just derping around to try and get to the point where I could pass an interview for a java company. Sounds like I should check out netbeans! I used it in high school but that was almost a decade ago. I didn't know it was still around
Does anyone know what the more optimal solution to the problem of finding which two numbers in an array add up to a sum k?
Norway data: Most people from my uni with master's degrees started between 50k and 60k and most work with Java. I just graduated and started at 60k, all personal insurances paid by my employer, free food at work, ~5k yearly bonus, 5 weeks vacation. I hear senior devs top out around 100k here, the real money comes once you start managing.
Yeah, as I said, I got mixed up. Hopefully OP will look at all the respones and gain better experience anyway. 
i like some of the things, esp search. don't mean to be a prick, but there are some features that make it unusable as a replacement at the moment: * url doesn't update when switching to a document (so i can't copy&amp;paste the link) * package overview is missing (it's usually in the top left, i use it all the time). seeing only classes from a specific package is a must for me. * left menu: wastes to much space (the separator lines + huge padding make it visually a bit nicer, but doesn't improve usability and takes way too much space); "show more" is annoying cause i can't use the browser search (ctrl+f/cmd+f) * search feels slow, it's unclear if i have to press enter or not, should update immediately, needs a spinner to indicate when it's active, it's in the wrong place (should be above the index; where it is now i'm expecting it to do a full text search, which it does not). * concrete methods/abstract methods/etc. is very cool. not sure how to call this, but i'd like to see a final tab "really all methods" , which includes the inherited methods. maybe even checkboxes would be better, because there's so many possible combinations. not sure about this though. if you leave it as is i'd at least add numbers, e.g. All method (3), Concrete Methods (2), Abstract Methods (1) all in all i'd say you did a good job, but there are some substantial updates that would be very cool: * menu: scroll-locked headers for package names (javax.swing,java.io,java.nio,etc.), classes ordered by packages first, then alphabetically * content: scroll-locked headers for sections (method summary, constructors, etc.) * link to source like doxygen does (ie a tiny icon next to fields/methods/etc. that, if configured, links to the file+linenumber in a public svn/git/etc. repo). this is very handy once you get into reading lots of source code. anyways, i'm very happy you're working on this, javadocs can definitely use an update (i rarely publish them, but i'm always unhappy about how they look. usability is not so much of an issue, or i just got used to them :) ). 
No programmer is worth 80k. 80k is either overpaid for a junior position or underpaid for a senior position. 
Tangentially related, but if you are interested in using OpenJDK 8, it's available in Fedora 20. It's the default in soon-to-be-released Fedora 21.
I won't dispute that using interview questions like these to perhaps review some basics isn't a good thing; it is. But are most interviews REALLY going to concentrate on things like this? From what I've experienced, most interviews are behavioral. What have you done? Under what circumstances? With who? What was the benefit to the organization? What were your specific responsibilities? What were your strengths in fulfilling those? Where did you need to improve? Etc. It's not like programmers just sit in a box, read a spec, and just crank out code these days. They have to talk to people, perhaps use crappy VCS systems, integrate to obscure legacy services, and work within bureaucracies, however large or small. They will often talk to customers, or at least SMEs who represent customers. Knowing which kind of graph data structure to use in any given situation is useful, sure, but I'd be more interested in knowing you can read up and pick the right one when it's needed. And trying to prepare for a technical interview, even if you know it's going to be a technical interview, is hit or miss at best anyway. Interviewers usually have very different ideas of what they mean by "technical" in such an interview. You might get grilled on algorithms, sure; but you're even more likely to get grilled on the minutiae of transactions under SQL Server vs. Oracle or the particulars around Hibernate or Spring, or Java 8; to name just a few of many possible examples. 
I agree: the left menu is wasting space. If the goal was to support mobile devices (more space for touch), I recommend to optimize for touch via javascript. Just make the menu responsive to touchstart, so the menu entry which receives the event becomes bigger, so I get visual feedback about the current selected entry. Edit: Maybe, I will fork it and do a demonstration...
Wow. So around 4-5K a month as a junior? Can you list some of those companies for me (I won't mind if you rather keep it private, of course :))?
Glad to see JavaDoc getting some love (HTML 5 and this) Can't say I've had a lot of urge to search through JavaDoc from the browser (except for finding the right page using Google, or using it as part of my IDE)
No. But there appears to be a semi-insane port of Node.js to GWT: https://github.com/cretz/gwt-node And maybe a less insane port by Redhat: http://www.infoworld.com/article/2610123/javascript/node-js-arrives-for-the-jvm.html
Interface is a blueprint. You can have a blueprint to build car but can't ride the blueprint until the car is built. In java land we use interface to build classes but cant use interface to make objects. Related concept to interface is abstract classes. In my car example it might be four wheels plus the blue print to build the car. In general with abstract classes you don't have to build everything from scratch, there are already something prebuilt to make your life easier. What's the point of all these jumbo mumbo? It let a programmer to design something and let other programmers to build to specification. Wow this place is very hostile. Poor op got down voted to hell.
Well it depends, for junior-mid positions asking detailed questions about SQL Server isn't really fair. However, I absolutely hate algorithm-based questioning. A good developer has to be able to pick up new technologies quickly and make sure his/her work is maintainable/readable by others. Knowing when to use an obscure data structure taught in first year University is near useless in the real world. Unfortunately, most companies don't share my perspective, so it's important to learn it anyways. 
/r/javahelp is where you want to post this
I would go through "Cracking the Code" and look at the OOP section and the various algorithm sections, there are a ton of great examples in there for you to work out (it also provides answers in case you get stuck or want to check your reasoning). You can either buy it or acquire it through more nefarious means *ahem* piratebay
One of the project's i've been handing out to the junior dev's I mentor is to create a Minesweeper game. Don't start out with anything fancy; just a 10x10 grid with 10 mines in random locations. Click/select/choose a cell and turn it into the number of mines in the surrounding cells. Once you have it working, further optimizations can be: * randomize locations after the first selection (so that you never lose on the first click) * allow configuration of mines and sizes * Auto-select surrounding cells And hey, if you'll PM your solution, I'll look over your code. Though, while I have plenty of experience with java, I don't have any with android.
If this is an ad, it's a bad one, since it's not even clear how to register. If it isn't an ad, then I fail to see the value.
don't know why but I don't really like /r/dailyprogrammer exercises. They just seem odd to me, compared to other coding challenges 
I'm a reasonably happy eclipse user, but I have also worked with IntelliJ and NetBeans from time to time. For some strange reason I always happen to return to eclipse. My advice: Try all three and see for yourself whichever you like best. Be sure to look up the most important keyboard shortcuts, and maybe even add a template or two (for example, I often implement immutable Iterators and have a "uoe" template that expands to `throw new UnsupportedOperationException` for the remove() method as well as a `log` template that creates a static Logger attribute for my logging framework of choice.
In other news, the code in that screenshot is awful and you should feel awful.
How I make immutable objects in Java? I've always though that all objects are immutable, because if you change the content of an String example, it will make you an new object and point to that. However the article says that immutable objects are worth a new story so is there something what I've been missing?
Thanks!! 
The specification does not specify the algorithm a container shall use to resolve the servlet. So I guess, the simplest thing would be that a server iterates over all servlet definitions for each request until it finds a definition that matches the request. Tomcat (8) uses a HashMap to store the mapping of a decoded pattern and the servlet name (both strings). If you care about performance at that location, you probably have other problems. From a performance optimization view, this should be the last thing to care about, if the container is not some obscure legacy.
I like the explanatory style of putting questions and giving more learning opportunity to developer. If anyone is interested in some more good questions, I have shared couple of them in my blog post http://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2014/07/top-50-java-multithreading-interview-questions-answers.html
javaranch is decent.
Check also http://www.voxxed.com/, from the creators of the Devoxx conferences, but for me the ones you listed are the main ones.
The only difference is in how you write them. An immutable object is just an object that has no content that can be changed. A couple of examples are a class with all fields final, or a class with all private fields and no setters. Since the fields are final or private, they can never be externally changed. This makes them immutable. A mutable class, on the other hand, allows it's contents to be changed. For example a class with non-final fields, or private fields with setters. Since external code can change the contents of the class, the class is mutable. Here is an example of an immutable class: public class SomeImmutableClass { public final String someString = ""; //field is final, so it cannot be changed private int someInt = 0; //field is private and has no setter, so it cannot be changed public int getSomeInt() { return someInt; //someInt can be retrieved, but not set. } } And here is an example of a mutable class: public class SomeMutableClass { public String someString = ""; //field is NOT final, so it CAN be changed private int someInt = 0; //field is private and has a setter, so it CAN be changed public int getSomeInt() { return someInt; //someInt can be retrieved } public void setSomeInt(int someInt) { this.someInt = someInt; //someInt can be set } }
Strings are immutable, most objects are not. Whenever you have a mutator method (setSomething or addSomething) that returns void chances are good that the object is mutable. An prominent example of that is ArrayList, you can observe this behaviour by storing 2 references to the List, both will change when valuea are added/removed from either To make you objects immutable make sure they only have final fields that are not arrays (arrays are always mutable in java) and all the types of the fields also only have final fields. You can have non final fields if you disallow access/mutation to them, this is non trivial to reason about though (but most of the time it is easier).
~~Currently I'm using Primefaces, what does OmniFaces better?~~ Nevermind :) 
Immutable classes should be marked as final so they can't be extended. Also, having public final fields is bad form.
Yea Chicago as well, in finance, right up there in salary, however, I've got great work like balance where I work, so it varies
130k lol as a sr developer i would spit in the persons face who offered me that low salary..
it is sad to see so many developers here working for such low wages...YOU'RE WORTH MORE THAN THIS PEOPLE! Those managers and companies need you much more than you need them! 
/r/java, sometimes /r/programming, dzone, javaworld, etc. Add a few blogs (psy-lob-saw, shipilev, vanilla java, etc.) and I'm done. Then again my job isn't exactly the usual (Statistical data analysis/processing, which is a lot about algorithms and optimization, not about UI or web apps).
Merely making a field final isn't going to make the class immutable. public class Test1 { private final Date date; public Test1(Date date) { this.date = date; } public Date getDate() { return this.date; } } You just handed me back a date object. After I get it back, I am going to immediately do this: @Test public void test() { Test1 x = new Test1(new java.util.Date(1)); Date date1 = x.getDate(); Date cloneDate = (Date) date1.clone(); x.getDate().setTime(1500); Date date2 = x.getDate(); System.out.println(cloneDate.compareTo(date2) == 0 ? "IMMUTABLE!" : "NOPE!"); } What does that test print out? IMMUTABLE! or NOPE!? Sincerely, Richard Nixon
I've used Eclipse since the 3.0 or 3.1 days (circa 2005) - so I'm pretty comfy with the environment: but about a month ago I switched to IntelliJ: Eclipse's stability has degenerated over the years; it's heavyweight, [frequently crashes](https://twitter.com/junkdogAP/status/398493200882470912), developing plugins for it is overly complex leading to a lot of *essential* plugins rarely updated or of subpar quality. In an ideal world, I'd still prefer Eclipse since I'm so familiar with it. IMO, the java feature advantages intellij offers are only marginal improvements over Eclipse's, but having a stable IDE means a lot. My eclipse was averaging ~3 crashes a day at work (oftentimes when deep into a debugging session) - it's not worth it. So, if you come into this with a clean slate - pick a sensible IDE: give intellij and netbeans a try (personally, I never liked netbeans). Some concrete IntelliJ advantages: - Jetbrains are pretty much the go-to company for x-platform IDE:s for any language. Makes transitioning a breeze (I've used AppCode in the past and briefly looked at CLion's EAP build). - IntelliJ, compared to Eclipse, has much better support for non-java files; xml, properties, build scripts etc. - Since you're coming into this relatively fresh: IntelliJ bundles with a better core set of features out of the box. 
Thanks for your feedback. I know there's plenty of stuff to optimize. Here's a few answers to your points mentioned: - url: it's the same issue as the original javadocs. it's just plain HTML files with an iframe (no webserver). but history support could be achieved via html5 push state + .htaccess - package overview: you can search for classes in a particular package with an "in" search (e.g. in:java.util). - left menu: I decided to use pagination (via show more button) for the search results due to performance reasons. There's a total of 4000+ classes in the JDK. Rendering 4000+ items takes up a significant amount of time. But IMO thats not a big deal. You don't have to use the browser search. Just use the built-in search. - slow search: You have to press Enter in order to perform a search. Search results render in &lt;30ms on my machine. Dunno what you mean by "slow"? It's as fast as you manage to press enter. ;) The main purpose of this project is to build a working proposal for the original JEP-225, filed by Oracle. I'm not responsible for this JEP but I hope that some of my ideas will be addressed.
&gt;An prominent example of that is ArrayList, you can observe this behaviour by storing 2 references to the List, both will change when valuea are added/removed from either Can you elaborate this a little bit more? If I have two objects in my arraylist and I remove the latter one from index 1 and then again add it to the arraylist how this will effect to the index 0 object?
Of course, but I was not trying to write a complete tutorial on immutable objects. I was just helping /u/DatHuge understand the difference between mutable and immutable.
True, but for the purpose of understanding what an immutable class is it works.
This shows how easy it is to break encapsulation. When you return a reference to a mutable object, you are sharing ownership of that reference with whomever receives it. This can break invariants, such as immutability. The moral of the story is, don't provide getters to mutable objects if you can avoid it. If you must, consider returning a copy. If you are returning a collection and you want to be annoying, you could wrap it as an [unmodifiable collection](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Collections.html#unmodifiableCollection%28java.util.Collection%29). Also, the Date class sucks. 
&gt; Also, the Date class sucks. It's amazing how terrible it is. In the History of Bad, chapters could be written about java.util.Date. Sincerely, Richard Nixon
It's not to do with changing the contents of the list. This is an example of what he means: List&lt;String&gt; list1 = new ArrayList&lt;String&gt;(); List&lt;String&gt; list2 = list1; list1.add("hello"); System.out.println(list2.size()); // 1
any recommendations? 
At least until Oracle makes new version of Java plugin using PPAPI.
That'd be nice, but I haven't seen any indication that they have plans to do that. Have you?
The servlet mappings are kept in the [StandardContext of Catalina](http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-8.0-doc/api/org/apache/catalina/core/StandardContext.html).
I am paraphrasing what Mark Reinhold mentioned during a Q&amp;A session at JavaOne 2014: &gt; With HTML5 taking over for web applications, it's very likely the Java Plugin will go away at some point. It doesn't really commit to much, but it does point out that even the Java developers have realized that the Java plugin is basically for legacy applications and development resources spent on that can be better spent elsewhere. I highly doubt they will rewrite it using another API now.
http://www.mkyong.com/ http://www.petrikainulainen.net/ http://krams915.blogspot.ca/p/tutorials.html http://www.theserverside.com/ http://www.javacodegeeks.com/ http://www.javabeat.net/ http://viralpatel.net/blogs/ http://www.journaldev.com/ http://www.javaworld.com/news http://jaxenter.com/news/ http://javapapers.com/
Are you referring to IBM?
No, it doesn't. It's wrong and potentially misleading.
https://github.com/apache/tomcat-maven-plugin
Learn servlets, ejb 3.1 DI annotations(they work in spring too), soap, rest, jpa, and some kind of dao/mvc framework combo. That'll all cross over into pretty much everything else. Make an example web project for yourself put all that junk together that's most work in java.
Thank you this is useful. However if there are offline options that would be preferable.
I'm guessing OP is referring to IBM's WebSphere Application Server. The version numbers match the current releases
Sorry, yes... IBM
Interfaces are basically like a stereo receiver telling people what cables it can accept. So the stereo receiver (the class) supports say: RCA, HDMI, and SPDF (interfaces) Each of those interfaces, even though they may do the same basic things, have annoying detailed differences like form factor, number of wires, analog vs digital conforming to a standard. Likewise, the interfaces for a class are defining a standard set of methods and assumed behavior that the implementing class will adhere to. 
Yahoo, Microsoft (no Java though), Telenor Digital, BDO, Bekk Consulting, SportRadar, NorKart, Netlight++.
Apple does not allow it.
Yes. Search for IBM Websphere training partners. Global Knowledge is the one we have used. http://www-304.ibm.com/services/learning/ites.wss/us/en?pageType=page&amp;c=a0000048
Unfortunately, Apple is a little twitchy about allowing compilers or interpreters to run on iOS: &gt; 3.3.2  An Application may not itself install or launch other executable code by any means, including without limitation through the use of a plug-in architecture, calling other frameworks, other APIs or otherwise. No interpreted code may be downloaded or used in an Application except for code that is interpreted and run by Apples Documented APIs and built-in interpreter(s). (from the iOS SDK agreement).
I am not. I develop all my GUI apps in Swing. Can I get away with using Swing and deploy in FX, or do I need to recode all the interfaces?
Global Knowledge is great but they only offer virtual training for WAS.
if you jailbreak your ipad, install iPhone/Java and a terminal emulator. you can complile and run java from the command line, but i never found a good way to write a reasonable program with a text editor and then compile it.
Launch4J, although not free unless you're trying a trial version, is pretty good. The interface is pretty easy to use too. *edit: derped up name.
I was hoping for free (the project I am doing is my own personal hobby, so it's not funded). I'll check it out. Right now I am using launch4j and it's great but very cumbersome to deploy.
Yes. You'd have to recode. UIs are built using FXML. You should be able to reuse your Controller code for though. You can use Lambdas too which will result in less boiler plate code. Another advantage of JavaFX, it will bundle up the JRE with your install so Java won't need to be installed by the user. 
I'm not sure how or if it is possible to get the granularity you're asking for. However you can measure the overhead globally using a microbenchmarking tool such as Caliper, which supports Android until version 0.5. There is enough functionality to measure the execution time of a single piece of code or method call. I've done that for one of my projects, with useful results.
Do you need to install the application? Because if you just need to run it on a different machine then all you need to do is create a jar file. As long as the target machine has the JVM installed it will run the program. You don't need any additional software to do this either. There is a command you can run at the command prompt and Java will create a jar file. Or an IDE like Netbeans or Eclipse will do it as well. 
The cross-platform package builders work for all kinds of apps now - FX, Swing, CLI...
IzPack is the only really full-featured, supported, free option left, IMHO. I've tried many of the others - the commercial options are a hard sell to small businesses, and the other free options are not very polished.
I would suggest posting this in /r/javahelp. But before you do - formulate a post where you state what you've done. So you're looking how to "start" your assignment? It's pretty specific about what you need to import. You need to get first name, last name, age, GPA, and major from user input. When you re-post this in /r/javahelp, show the code you write to get the first name of a person from the executing user. Sincerely, Richard Nixon
Not necessarily, but I do want to make it as easy as possible for the end-user to get the app up and running. Some of the people who use my app have complained about not being able to get the JAR to run without using java from command line. More technical people could, but I don't want this to be a tool for the technically apt. Anyhow, yes, I do build the complete JAR from an Eclipse project. Currently I use launch4j to create an EXE wrapper, and for Mac and Linux users i just provide the JAR. Would like to streamline this though.
[install4j](http://www.ej-technologies.com/products/install4j/overview.html) pretty good but not free.
OpenJDK 8 in Ubuntu 14.10 (and in some other distros) can't even load a JPEG image (java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError caused by ImageIO). It's sad that after so many years it's still in alpha quality..
Thank you Richard Nixon, I appreciate your response. I'm very new to Java and programming in general and I'm having a hard time wrapping my mind around all these foreign concepts. Thanks again!
Launch4j is free, no trial version that I'm aware of. &gt; This program is free software licensed under the BSD license, the head subproject (the code which is attached to the wrapped jars) is licensed under the MIT license. Launch4j may be used for wrapping closed source, commercial applications. http://launch4j.sourceforge.net/
Create jar via IDE, open Launch4j and load your settings, create .exe wrapper. Beyond setting up your Launch4j settings and then saving them, it's a very quick process.
I just used [NSIS](http://nsis.sourceforge.net/Main_Page) to create a one big installer (~40M) with private JRE+JavaFX+app.jar. I think it can be reduced to 20MB if you use pack200 and remove unused stuff ;)
Oh yea, you're right. I am getting my "4j"s mixed up.
Why do you care? If the whole JNI call takes X time, what does it matter how much is spent in JNI stuff vs. native code? If you can access the native code, you can record how long it runs and subtract that from X. Is that enough to satisfy your curiosity? 
&gt; What source file(s) were involved Well, I currently use versions 6 and 7. So it would be different. Don't have time to really look into it now, but at first glance, I see this: Did Thread.dumpStack(); from a simple servlet. Interesting bit was this (right before the servlet): org.apache.catalina.core.ApplicationFilterChain.internalDoFilter In the code, they have it chaining the filters, and once all filters have been chained, they cal the target servlet: In internalDoFilter(...) they have this: servlet.service(request, response); In ApplicationFilterChain, field servlet is defined as: private Servlet servlet = null; And we have: void setServlet(Servlet servlet) So whatever calls ApplicationFilterChain.setServlet is what would be my next place to look. I don't have the source loaded in an IDE. So I can't follow/find references. Just looking at web-based apache svn repository. If I ever get to it, I'll load it up (I use Eclipse), and will check what calls that method. This would be the next place to look. Whatever sets the servlet needs to figure out which servlet to set. 
&gt; simplest thing would be that a server iterates over all servlet definitions &gt; uses a HashMap to store the mapping of a decoded pattern If it actually uses hash, then the order doesn't matter. But if it's iterating, then the order does matter. I use don't use wildcards or special patterns. So in theory, there would be no need to iterate, just use exact match. So hashing would work. And how it's actually implemented is the question. 
This post is better posted in /r/Javahelp because /r/Java is for: &gt;**News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language** as is clearly stated in the **sidebar** where you would also find: &gt;**Please seek help with Java programming in /r/Javahelp!** **But** before you post there, formulate a better post, make yourself familiar with reddit formatting (the unordered list works wonders in formatting posts). Ask clear questions, show what you have. Nobody will do the work for you. **Also:** be sure to read the [Posting Guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/javahelp/wiki/posting_guides) on /r/Javahelp before you post.
You need this. JVM Programming Language by Yauheni Shauchenka https://appsto.re/be/ygV-C.i Still an Internet connection require though but at least it's a native app. You can try for free but it is a paid app technically. There is also one available from the same developer that can handle multiple languages. That being said, programming on the tablet isn't a good idea no matter how good the app is. 
Just so he doesn't need an Internet connection to code on a tablet? Bad idea. Programming on any tablet is going to be a pretty cumbersome experience no matter the platform. Selling his iPad just for that is something he might regret. 
I know apple don't like compilers and interpreters on iOS. But I've seen a Python one "Pythonista" I think, so there is hope for a Java interpreter at least.
Use the free one build into NetBeans IDE.
[LibGDX](http://libgdx.badlogicgames.com/) uses [RoboVM](http://www.robovm.com/) for iOS backend. edit: actually, you want to develop code on iOS? Not possible, Apple is too restrictive. Also, to write apps for iOS (even if for yourslef) you must pay for developers license yearly. (unless jailbroken)
There's a free Dev licence available also!
Which platform are the complaining users on? I am able to double-click and run JAR files even in Windows XP. It should be a runnable JAR though (main class specified in the Manifest).
There is also iteration used for finding the value in a hash-based map. In the JRE implementation of HashMap, iteration is used to search through the entries of a bucket. So if the size of a bucket within the hash table is 100 and completely filled, you may end up with 100 iterations before the value is found. The important thing is, that the performance relies on the quality of the hash, the distribution of the values among the buckets and their size.
Yeah, I understand how hash is implemented. But I'm not going to dig that deep. If it's a hash, and there is no way to control it from the outside (order in web.xml), then I'll just leave it be. It's not worth the hassle.
There is in a way. The specs(JSRs) are written to allow vendors to provide it as a value-add. Look at the any spec that supports session type behavior and look at the requirements. The idea that things in session object should implement serializable isn't just for session passivation, its for session replication between cluster nodes.
Don't forget printers. Good luck trying to do pixel perfect printing via HTML.
http://www.javaposse.com/
Thank god. One more thing that will force people to move away from that crap. I love Java, but the plugin has been the source of so much damn "Java is insecure" shit I will gladly see it die.
Java native packager.
Well they make android apps, but originally was only talking about java. However they actually gave me a test scenario to write out. I posted in an edit to the post. And I thought android was pure java with the addition of a few libraries to take care of different things like the UI, but still used the JVM. Am I wrong?
That's not reliable enough. sometimes end users have no program associated with a jar, sometimes it's an package extractor, sometimes it's something else. 
You could make it as a side effect of your build process... http://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.akathist.maven.plugins.launch4j/launch4j-maven-plugin
Chrome has this API https://developer.chrome.com/apps/usb But I am not sure how far long it is.
Thanks! Didn't even know that existed
Oddly enough most users are able to open JAR files up by clicking, if they installed JRE correctly. At some point I just end up instructing them on how to make a shortcut with 'java'
Oh nice, and it has an Eclipse plugin. Sweet =)
I'm looking into that based on someone elses recommendation in this thread, thanks.
Is this serious ? return f -&gt; f // 13 .split(Order.class, Order::getItems) // 14 .channel(c -&gt; c.executor(Executors.newCachedThreadPool()))// 15 .&lt;OrderItem, Boolean&gt;route(OrderItem::isIced, mapping -&gt; mapping // 16 .subFlowMapping("true", sf -&gt; sf // 17 .channel(c -&gt; c.queue(10)) // 18 .publishSubscribeChannel(c -&gt; c // 19 .subscribe(s -&gt; // 20 s.handle(m -&gt; sleepUninterruptibly(1, TimeUnit.SECONDS)))// 21 .subscribe(sub -&gt; sub // 22 .&lt;OrderItem, String&gt;transform(item -&gt; Thread.currentThread().getName() + " prepared cold drink #" + this.coldDrinkCounter.incrementAndGet() + " for order #" + item.getOrderNumber() + ": " + item) // 23 .handle(m -&gt; System.out.println(m.getPayload())))))// 24 .subFlowMapping("false", sf -&gt; sf // 25 .channel(c -&gt; c.queue(10)) .publishSubscribeChannel(c -&gt; c .subscribe(s -&gt; s.handle(m -&gt; sleepUninterruptibly(5, TimeUnit.SECONDS)))// 26 .subscribe(sub -&gt; sub .&lt;OrderItem, String&gt;transform(item -&gt; Thread.currentThread().getName() + " prepared hot drink #" + this.hotDrinkCounter.incrementAndGet() + " for order #" + item.getOrderNumber() + ": " + item) .handle(m -&gt; System.out.println(m.getPayload())))))) .&lt;OrderItem, Drink&gt;transform(orderItem -&gt; new Drink(orderItem.getOrderNumber(), orderItem.getDrinkType(), orderItem.isIced(), orderItem.getShots())) // 27 .aggregate(aggregator -&gt; aggregator // 28 .outputProcessor(group -&gt; // 29 new Delivery(group.getMessages() .stream() .map(message -&gt; (Drink) message.getPayload()) .collect(Collectors.toList()))) // 30 .correlationStrategy(m -&gt; ((Drink) m.getPayload()).getOrderNumber()), null) // 31 .handle(CharacterStreamWritingMessageHandler.stdout()); Since when it`s ok to write code like this ? I don't understand this new trend to have javascript style boilerplate code, is this supposed to be more clear than writing each action on one line with a clear comment even if it takes more lines ? .......
I thought old company was the only one that used SWT =) 
Depends who you ask. Oracle would probably not call it Java. Java is a platform that includes a language syntax, class(bytecode) format, libraries, JVM, etc. Google borrowed the Java language for source files. For a large chunk of the libs they used http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Harmony but they added Android specific classes and are missing classes that are a part of SE. And there is no Java bytecode or classes in a fully compiled android app and no JVM, instead you have either http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dalvik_(software) or http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_Runtime Any true Java app should be "write once, run anywhere" (or close to it) but you can't copy an android app to a Java platform and you can't copy a compiled Java application to an android phone. Since it kills the binary portability of Java I don't really consider it Java but you do program in Java when writing Android apps but that just means the Java language. If you look into the Oracle-Google lawsuit over Java you might find it interesting. Harmony and the other libs that match the standard Java libs at an api level are what they are fighting about. Oracle doesn't want Java-like platforms that are only somewhat compatible so they are trying to say that other people can't re-implement the Java APIs because the API signatures are owned by them. Plus Oracle would like some money which I understand to some degree, Google leveraged Java to help kickstart Android app development and did it in a way to specifically avoid paying Sun (bought by Oracle now) any money. Having copyrightable APIs would really change a lot of things in our industry. TLDR; Android uses the Java language but not the Java platform.
I feel docker is going to become one of those defacto standards like spring or maven. Yea, at some point people are going to start shitting on it, but before that happens it will move the entire industry into a better direction. Learn it now and later you can tell people you knew it way back when.
Ah... why don't you just use OpenShift. It'll do it automatically.
Ah, ok that makes a lot more sense. Do you have any experience with creating APIs or know any good tutorials? Turns out they gave me an assignment to test out my skills and it involves creating an api. With all the tutorials I've seen it seems to leave a few steps out. 
Don't you have to either run your cartridges in the cloud or set up your own? With docker, you can run your instances anywhere.
You can actually get docker support from RedHat: https://access.redhat.com/articles/881893 https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/extras
To a large degree an API design depends a lot on the technology choices. For example a REST API design is going look much different than a SOAP API so I'd suggest using technologies you are familiar with. But an API doesn't have to involve web services, you can make a good API that is just a library. Get a simple idea for your APIs domain and write a 1 page doc that describes the uses that you are solving for your APIs target audience. When you design your API, any classes/types that you create which aren't solving your 1 page list should be exposed to the client. Have a JAR of interfaces/abstractions/classes that the client needs in order to compile. Everything else that is required to run should be off in a separate JAR that provides the runtime. For example imagine a simple file-storage API. You'd have an interface that outlines basic Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete type methods and a MyApiRuntime.getInstance type factory. You could have multiple implementations, one that stores all files inside of a ZIP archive, and another that stores all the files in a database. Try to keep some of the core principles in mind: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOLID_%28object-oriented_design%29 Read/Watch: http://www.newt.com/java/GoodApiDesign-JoshBloch.pdf to go with https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aAb7hSCtvGw I like using CDI because of the alternatives features but it isn't a requirement, Java has had a ServiceProvider framework for a while (https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/sound/SPI-intro.html) if you are trying to support alternative API implementations.
Great compiler, only for 2'20 MB! get it now!
You are in the wrong subreddit. Java is not the same as JavaScript. Please try /r/javascript and /r/angularjs .
1. Why would I want to run a code that has errors? 2. The compilation is already incremental. 3. If nothing is using those other cores. https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/documentation/migration_faq.html
I've worked on "large" java web apps (200+ html pages) and I have been using AngularJs as well the past year or so (~50 pages). SPAs are supposed to increase performance because you aren't making HTTP requests every time, but it really depends on your client. If you expect to support lots of older front ends (older PCs, older phones etc...) then SPAs may not be the right choice for you. You are basically just moving code from the Server onto the Client, so older devices may actually run slower. I wish I could give you a better answer, but it basically comes down to "it depends".
The container management part is still pretty half-baked. Google has their version, but there's no agreed upon standard that just works out of the box yet. It's also going to be questionable how you can have a private repo for your docker images (which will be a big requirement for enterprise development) and still deploy to a public cloud.
That's awesome, I just tried using IDEA and not being able to debug my modules because other parts of the team had brown modules was driving me crazy. EDIT: auto correct strikes again, I meant "broken" not "brown" module.
That's probably an unintended consequence. In practice, you don't want to replicate the session between nodes, because for a large cluster n to n-1 communication can flood the network. To get around that you have to implement things like JBoss's 'buddy replication'. The answer to clustering in JEE is sticky sessions on the reverse proxy (jsessionid) and stateless beans. 
Didn't know devs still care about file size of their tooling in 2014.
Really? Say you're working on a project that has many classes in many different files, and you only want to test one part without having to worry about bugs being present in other parts of the project that are irrelevant to what you're currently testing. That's why you would want to build/run a project with errors in it. Unless you're only working on single file or very small scale projects. In that case, why are you using Java?
&gt; Concurrent computing is pointless because something else might be using the cores wah wah! That is the most ridiculous example of trying too hard to find problems with something I've ever seen.
AWS adopting it will increase its usage quite a lot.
&gt; mappings &gt; searge names What are these? The correct fix is for minecraft to add a proper API...
It's just a spam account either way. 
Sure, you're right, as usual. Wasn't the following from "The Secret Book"? &gt; Don't you get tired of always being right? ;)
Lets say you want to buy some weed. You've got this number of a drugdealer from your friend. And he wasn't your friend really, just a guy you've met a couple of times at a party that was hosted by your other friends. Are they really your friends? Anyway, you've called this drugdealer and he told you to bring money to a certain location. You have to consider the possibility that maybe you will not get that sticky icky but instead you will get robbed and probably get your ass whooped in the process. But luckily for you, you've got what you came for. There are still some questions unanswered tho: Who was that dude? Is he really a drugdealer? Is he selfemployed? Is he just a deliveryboy for a bigger organization? What is drugdealer? But you don't care. You've got munchies to worry about. And thats what interface is really all about. Its just a curtain around a large system that can be a person or an organization. This kind of systems is using interfaces to provide, often limited, services to the outside world. Think about it - the drugdealer in this example provided you his service in the form of weed. The drugdealer was also a person with two legs and two arms. He could have also provided you a service in the form of washing your car for example. But I'm not sure if many drugdealers have that kind of interface.
You're complaining because Minecraft obfuscates their code to prevent illegitimate cracking and optimise. This is not a Java flaw.
similar, but more simple and minimalist, and it wil be open source :)
nice, java?
Groovy and node.js and redis as the database
That's unlikely now that MSFT bought it! But maybe they'll open source it in 20 years like the .net core.
&gt; Unlike Javac, the Eclipse compiler can use multiple cores to speed up compilation, finally putting all those extra cores in your PC to good use. For real?
What is a brown module? I have worked on teams with eclipse and IntelliJ users for years and never heard of this. 
He might be talking about the [file status color](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/help/file-status-highlights.html), but I don't really see what this has to do with the Eclipse compiler. &gt;Brown "file status unknown" - File exists locally, but is not in the repository, and is not scheduled for adding. 
It will be nice to have an equivalent recipe for Java CLI or GUI apps. I am not very familiar with Docker, but have worked with LXCs. Would something like this be possible in a Docker script: 1. Install JRE 2. Install `xauth` 3. Install the app's jar 4. Boot the image 5. `ssh -X` to the container and run the app. 6. shutdown the instance after the JRE exits 
Anyone know if this works with a maven project?
Well I am not saying this...check out : http://www.appszoom.com/magazine/5-groundbreaking-apps-for-learning-how-to-code-android_5483
Broken module, haha my bad.
&gt; Add easily realtime bi-directional functionality via WebSockets to web and mobile apps &gt; Let the data and events call you and not the otherwise I'm pretty sure that needs to be "easy" not "easily". Except if they meant "Easily add".
Why on earth are your co-workers committing changes that don't compile? At my work that would get you a stern talking to.
Someone tell me why I shouldn't do this
Not really unintended, look at the servlet spec and all the stuff regarding &lt;distributable&gt; web applications. And yes, replicating to every node is typically overkill but you want some replication for failover purposes. 
When did comedy die.
This framework has everything you need for interactive websites. For mostly static websites without or few interactions this is an overkill.
Except, it is the ecj compiler and not the IDE, but then you wouldn't know the difference.
First of all, can you make sure that you are using Java and not JavaScript? You can usually tell by the extension of your source files (.java for Java, .js for JavaScript). This is the subreddit for Java. The subreddit for JavaScript, which is a dynamic language commonly mostly used to build websites, is /r/javascript .
This post is better posted in /r/Javahelp because /r/Java is for: &gt;**News, Technical discussions, research papers and assorted things of interest related to the Java programming language** as is clearly stated in the **sidebar** where you would also find: &gt;**Please seek help with Java programming in /r/Javahelp!** **But** before you post there, formulate a better post, make yourself familiar with reddit formatting (the unordered list works wonders in formatting posts). Ask clear questions, show what you have. Nobody will do the work for you. **Also:** be sure to read the [Posting Guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/javahelp/wiki/posting_guides) on /r/Javahelp before you post.
You don't have to, you can convert back and forth with `Optional.ofNullable` and `Optional.orElse`: return Optional.ofNullable(person).map(Person::getName).map(Name::getGivenName).orElse(null);
yes, i am 100% sure its java, its a user database for salary. 
Benchmark anyone?
Since you actually changed the site already, I felt motivted to take a closer look and found another one: &gt; Let the data and events call you and not the otherwise should probably be "not the other way round" (which is a bit long) or something else. I think "the otherwise" is not right. Btw., you could change "weeks" to "week" by now, but better make it dynamic, since you'll soon have "0 weeks".
If you want to speed up incremental compilation, then use IntelliJ IDEA 14.0.2, it [preloads compiler processes](http://blog.jetbrains.com/idea/2014/11/intellij-idea-14-0-2-eap-139-463-is-out/).
OpenShift is getting a lot of notice, but still not mainstream in any way. Docker seems to have approached the market with a more direct message?
You should use some kind of database to store usernames and passwords. Maybe sqlite: http://www.tutorialspoint.com/sqlite/sqlite_java.htm
thanks, will look into that, and your hearing is pretty good!
thanks, this was very helpful.
It looks proper now. As a final thought: Currently, you have &gt; Let the data and events call you and not the other way round which could be &gt; Let the data and events call you, not the other way round The choice is entirely arbitrary. I just thought "less is more".
as nexuscoringa said, look up for Regular Expressions, and also a security framework like Spring Security or Apache Shiro. I made a couple of Maven Archetypes with Google Guice, Apache Shiro and Jersey 1 or RestEasy 3. You can check it out here http://search.maven.org/#browse%7C1451301937 And pull-requests are very wellcome in my github repo: https://github.com/pabiagioli/secure-rest-webapp-archetype https://github.com/pabiagioli/shiro-guice-resteasy-webapp-archetype Best Regards
Try using an LDAP server
Excellent! king_of_the_universe
https://crackstation.net/hashing-security.htm explains how to properly store passwords (with individual salts and hashing), explains why things should be done like this, and has source in several languages (incl. Java).
Nope. That section is not there anymore.
Head First Java. And if you're completely new to development and coding you should read through "CODE by Charles Petzold" Awesome book!
'Thinking in Java" by Bruce Eckel, followed by "Effective Java" by Joshua Bloch for robust code.
For development reasons this may be really nice and a good resource, but I think for now I'll stick with Javac since that's what my CI environment uses and I want to ensure it'll compile locally with my changes before pushing something in. Seems like doing this could lead to quite a few issues in a team setting if you weren't careful. If I see the bad external modules others mention, this may be more frequently used than I realize.
Nice, thanks!
That's true. As a workaround, people could use `appletviewer`, the standalone applet runner bundled with JRE.
Another cool thing that is not mentioned. The eclipse compiler implements the java [compiler api](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/javax/tools/JavaCompiler.html), which means you can use it inside your pojects to compile stuff. Since it is only 2MB~, you can deploy it with your binary in case you need it (for example, scripting. Minecraft can only load .class files, which makes the game less opensource prone).
One time someone opened a pull request without braces around the body of his conditional statements. Loud wtf's were thrown.
You should read, in its entirety, [The Java Tutorial](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/)
Exactly! Make major changes such as change a method signature but want to unit test your new method before fixing all the places you broke so you can be sure it works before wasting all your time making it compile just to find out it doesnt work.
Yeah, there is but you can't actually use it to deploy code. That's just there for you to be able to download and access libraries etc.
Yeah I agree however Zane_Fire is in high school the main reason why he wants java on his iPad is because he wants to test out bits of small code. Not a fully functional GUI program etc
Thank you very much for your links and Happy Thanksgiving if you celebrate it. However, the links seem to be more abstract of basic concepts of designing an api, what I was looking for was a tutorial on how to create a net-friendly API with Java that has database functionality. I have a basic idea of what I want it to be and I know I can do it with PHP, however, I want to impress the potential employer by doing it in Java. 
Effective Java.
How are you referencing it? 
Great work, love Flyway. Saved us so much trouble managing our app that dynamically creates new schemas for each client.
While not free, Digital Ocean provides hosting for just $5 a month.
I use liquibase. Heard about flyway. Is there any significant difference?
And if you backup and delete your instance you won't be charged at all until you restore it. Good for people like me that get a burst of inspiration that fades after a week and remains dormant for a few months.
I have been using java web start with 1000+ internal users successfully but make sure your java web start is available on Internet if your users are mobile. Otherwise you will have strange issues with DNS hijacking of some ISPs.
it's been ages, but you can 1. write it on a pc and upload the file to the iphone or 2. write the program on the device and save it as a .java (i think ifile supports making simple text documents). you can then compile it using jikes (as you'd use javac on windows/mac/linux)
Same idea, but Flyway is much lighter weight. Flyway uses plain SQL commands (possibly db vendor specific) rather than XML files. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8418814/db-migration-tool-liquibase-or-flyway
It could be because Eclipse uses a custom compiler. [Source](https://www.reddit.com/comments/2niawa). According to that thread, you can have IntelliJ use the eclipse compiler.
I tried setting IntelliJ to use the Eclipse compiler. It's still slow to start running code.
Do you use nailgun and keep it running? It makes it pretty dang quick
I'm not sure. Is this enabled by default in IntelliJ 14?
I thought so. Bottom of screen in middle is the compiler guy. You can make sure its set to always run and give it more ram and stuff.
Which version of IntelliJ IDEA are you using? [This issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-128944) may be related and was recently fixed.
Please check out /r/learnjava and also /r/javahelp Do you know other programming languages ?
I, too, tried Eclipse's compiler in IntelliJ due to yesterday's post, also didn't notice a time difference.
This sounds like a problem for /r/getmotivated.
haha I do really have a problem with motivation, but I have found that the best thing for me is having another person relying on me or expecting something of me.
Imho your problem is rather *focusing* then. Not ADHD-like focusing problems, rather the problem of getting all the water of your will to flow into one direction, instead of it doing that *a little* and then spreading again right away or choosing to instead play a game etc. You want to want something. The tool you've chosen should help, but the long term goal is to shorten that to "You want something".
i can help
There is also a new version of the classic Java in a Nutshell from O'Reiily http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920030775.do