Thanks for your comment. I know I can send and receive information to a server in Python with Flask -- can I do the same with Swift in Xcode? Do you know of any resources that might help me get started? Thanks!
\&gt; UIImageView height and width roughly 85 percent of the width of the given iOS device (in portrait mode). In landscape mode, I'd want to size it based on the iOS device's height. This feels weird to me. What would happen to the rest of the layout? Should it be scrollable? As for using code instead of Storyboard, it's fine. The two approaches both have their advantages.
Look into REST API’s. You probably have to set up a multiform-data endpoint in python. You might want to use Alamofire in the iOS side.
I am a beginner in iOS Dev but I’ve done some research on the REST call functionality. There are a few libraries IIRC that help facilitate REST calls from swift and make it easier, but even without those. Just googling “making rest call in swift” will probably get you where you need to be! 
Possible answer: [https://github.com/bvankuik/ImageConstraintsLandscapePortrait](https://github.com/bvankuik/ImageConstraintsLandscapePortrait)
Source : [https://www.yudiz.com/image-recognition-and-tracking-using-arkit-2/](https://www.yudiz.com/image-recognition-and-tracking-using-arkit-2/)
"Yudiz as the best mobile app development company in Gujarat, India. The Google ranking recognizes us as a top mobile app development company, globally." Can you link to this so called list please?
App I work on is always a top seller in the top 100 apps on Mac and iOS. No analytics. No, I can’t share what it is as I value my privacy and we as a company value user privacy. We don’t use any analytics software. 
Q1: It's allowed but it won't automatically inference its type. The following would work: var employeeSalaries: [Any] = [45000.0,54000.0,100000.0, "20000.0"] Q2: No difference between the first one and the second one, except that the first one specifically states its type. It's more "Swifty" to omit the type when the compiler can infer it. The third line can be read as two parts: First *\[Int\]()* which basically says, create and initialize an array of ints. It calls the init() function of that type. And the second part, *1...4* which contains the triple-dot operator, which creates a sequence (or rather it creates *a CountableClosedRange&lt;Int&gt;*). This also works: print(1...4) or for i in (1...4) { print(i) }
Ok, so it does work. For some reason, his video didn't show the error that mine did. The fix on mine is this: var employeeSalaries = \[45000.0,54000.0,100000.0, "20000.0"\] as \[Any\]
If you're jailbroken, you can attach Reveal to any running app using substrate
Just as a note, you should avoid using `Any`. Swift is a strongly-typed language for a reason – so that type errors can get caught early and you can program safely. There is very little reason to have a mixed array like that. Instead, you should tie the types together with a protocol if you need to contain them all in a single `Array`. At least then you will know by the type of the `Array` that it contains a certain mix of types.
&gt; And the second part, 1...4 which contains the triple-dot operator [Closed Range Operator](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/BasicOperators.html#ID74)
I'm not sure what this is doing. You have a video that show a hand holding a phone. The image that you're tracking is the image on the phone? So as the phone moves or as the camera moves, it tracks the image on the phone?
Can't find other types of questions right now, but I can give you some answers you may expect. 1) The price should be a certain amount of $/day/developper So if they need 20 days, and they have 4 devs, they will split those 20 days between them, for exemple 5 days/dev. And if they all cost the same price, for exemple 250 - 300$ a day, you could expect to pay 20\*250 or 20\*300. 2) It depends on the reason of those update. It could be bug fixing, new features or anything that need to change the code. 3) for bug fixing, this should be free, because you paid for a working app, so it MUST work without bug. You can chose something called TMA (There Maintenance Application, which is more or less a number of day you ask them to work on your app, often per month. So if you need to add new features, they will work during those days. You have to chose wisely, because if you chose to many days, you will pay for nothing, because they will be paid even if they have nothing to do, or if you chose not enough, they won't be able to finish what you ask for, and will have to pay additional days, or delay the work for the next month, so delays the update of your app. 4) you can use an app like Adobe XD (which is kind of free), and "draw" all the screens you imagine for your app. So the only work they will have would be to code the app to obtain the exact same screens you send them. But, of course, they can, and should, help you with design, because their are A LOT of rules to follow to create a great app. Hope this will help you, and if you need help, I'm currently launching a mobile oriented service to develop apps in my French Company, so right now, for the start, we are able to create apps for small client/company. Feel free to PM me if you want to talk about your ideas. PS: if you have a Mac, I recommend you reading some of Apple's books about creating an App, and also to watch some keynotes in the developer site of Apple, they are a lot of really neat talks to help you go through the prototyping of an App. Sorry if my English isn't good, try to improve it every day :) 
Thanks, this is very helpful. I'm currently trying to weigh the cost/benefit of learning to code myself (large undertaking) vs. paying someone to develop for me. Sometimes I'm a little overconfident in my abilities, but I think I could learn to code. Teaching myself HTML/CSS was pretty easy, but I think Swift may be a different beast. 
Yes, this can be done. The only requirement for key type is to implement Hashable protocol (hashValue and ==) As values you can have almost anything: value types (Int, Double, structs, ...) any kinds of containers (other dictionaries, arrays, or Array&lt;Dictionary&lt;String, String&gt;&gt; as you have in your example) object instances (UIView, ...) 
Thank you! I’ll be checking these out for sure!
If you want to learn Swift, but most importantly learn to dev on iOS, I highly recommend you to follow this awesome playlist of Standford's lectures https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPA-ayBrweUzGFmkT_W65z64MoGnKRZMq 
I see you're thinking about doing this yourself. This is basically an issue of how complex the app really is. From an economic standpoint, you're looking at paying a pro because they have skills now that are far above yours (or at least that's the assumption). It's like paying someone to work on your car vs you doing it yourself. If the work is to change a flat tire, you might be best off doing that yourself, if it's to replace the head gasket, you might be best off to pay someone. There's a risk in hiring someone in that you might not know just how skilled they are. A college student posted he would do a fix bid app to help pay for college. I gave him the specs for a "picture browser" app that was part of a popular, entry tutorial and asked him for a price. My in box got flooded with replies ranging from a few hundred to nearly $80,000.00 USD. He started digging into layout, design, etc... I said, simple picture browser. He never came back with a price, others did and they were all over the map. There's a LOT of money to be made and a LOT of scammers out there. You might pay $30K, just to find out you got a re-skinned template app. Ask yourself how complex is the app, look at the work that the devs have done. Most will have "template" or "tutorial" apps. These are all over the place and some can be bought for $9.99 to a few hundred. It's all perfectly legal as long as it works and they didn't break any lic agreement. The gain to you is supposed to be that they have great skills and can provide whatever you need. Someone peddling re-skins isn't likely to be able to serve all your needs, but might offer a cheap price at the start. True custom software isn't cheap, they should have a showcase of work that is truly custom, showing advance knowledge of the tech involved. Going with someone in your host country can be helpful, getting legal action in a non-US nation can be hard.
You can try to find a freelancer, if it's a relatively short project (1-2 month), with a small feature set, I know some will do it for considerably less money then you would pay at an agency for example. Depends on scope and expectations, I've seen clients with low budget and the wildest ideas, that's obviously not gonna happen. Still expect to pay at least a few thousands dollars. 
These are the kind of marketing agency demos I love. It looks great and I am sure is quality work...until you realize the use case is holding one phone horizontally up to another phone that is portrait haha. I understand it’s a “demo”, but why not demo something useful? 
I’m on mobile, therefore no code formatting. But to answer your question. If you want to change the variable itself. You need to 1. Declare the flipSwitch method as mutating 2. Assign the new value inside the method to self Finally, a return value is no longer needed. Correct me if I’m wrong. 
The function you’ve shown isn’t flipping anything. All it’s doing is returning the opposite value. In fact, that `status` argument in your function is a constant (which is why it throws an error when you try to set it). If you want to change your `status` property in the function, you have to remove the argument and then you’ll be able to set it within (also there’s no need to return anything). 
That’s correct. The phone is just a way to show an image. Could easily be a piece of paper, but printers are the devil. 
Not only dreat, the dreatest!
You can use paper too . So people can scan your logo and you can market your brand.
So the tutorial is wrong. I'm not sure why nobody caught it, there were no questions about it. When you say: &gt; If you want to change your status property in the function, you have to remove the argument and then you’ll be able to set it within How would you access the value for compare if you don't pass it in and what do you assign?
Yeah, its weird it wasn't caught. You already defined your (variable) property as var status: SwitchStatus = .off so the function will simply look like so: func flipSwitch() { switch status { // the status property you already defined case .off: status = .on case .on: status = .off } }
So the function gets access to the var status because of it's scope, it's the default scope so it can be accessed by any function in that file. TBH, I really don't see any advantage to this code at all. I would think a class would do a better job. Is this considered a closure: status = { if status == .off { return .on } else { return .off } }() It doesn't start with an in, but it's code wrapped in braces. So it's a closure and the () executes it then and there. IMO, it's really hard to see any advantage to this at all. A function call with a return assigned to the var would have done the same thing. I don't get why they would put this in a tutorial with no real advantage.
Do you have the ability to audit everything that the analytics library you use does? Because while _you_ might be trustable, should your users trust your analytics software? 
Could paper also present a tracking problem? Is the tracking (at least a little) warp invariant?
Id like to do something akin to [this](https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/7003180?hl=en-GB) but for iOS 
$250 - $300 a day would be very cheap. I am a freelance developer and I normally charge between $110 and $125 an hour. Most of my work is done as a subcontractor for a development shop that then marks it up to $150 - $175 an hour. Granted, I am an high-mid to high end developer, but you should not expect such low prices as $31 an hour. You probably have a general sense of what it means to use cheap labor, especially in a high skill profession. Ultimately, it will depend on how complex your app idea is on how important it is to get good developers.
Where are you getting your developer pricing from?
Why did you stop for the year? 
Still deciding if I should learn swift or react native 
Paying for someone to build an app, is like paying someone to build an app. There are people out there that can give you all different levels of support. Maybe you just need a contractor who will take your plans and execute on them. Maybe you need an architect that will help you plan it out. Maybe you just need an advisor to help you put it together yourself. So the first question is to you: How much help do you think you need? The answer will almost certainly be, more than you think. Good development teams/individuals will have built many apps and have a lot of experience. They should be pushing back against your ideas to suss out the best solutions. Some development teams have inside design resources, some have inside user experience people. So if you can't do the design yourself, you can either higher a designer separately or you can contract with a shop that can do both. (Many designers know developers and vice versa). You should see yourself as the conductor of an orchestra. Find great people and let them do what they do best. You are just helping organize and provide the overall direction. Of course, if you want to just hand over blueprints and have a product built exactly to spec the cheapest, you can find lots of resources for that. But I can pretty much guarantee you, it will be a waste of money because the app will be unsuccessful.
Why do you need over 10k to test an app? All you need is 2 or 3 users probably. And if you're testing load... you need to do that with dummy users. Not real users.
&gt; Kinda downgrading myself Things to consider to break out of that mindset: - Objective-C is the language of Cocoa and all the Apple frameworks - There is a lot of Objective-C code out there... - ...including Objective-C example code (which will not break every year as the language is stable/not being developed much) - You'll be acquiring the skillset that will make you a lot more valuable to a lot more clients As for learning Objective-C, try and get the official Apple docs on it. They probably have them buried away somewhere on developer.apple.com as they want everyone to learn Swift now. There were actually some really great docs about Cocoa which seem to have been pulled or deprecated from the developer site. 
Delegate pattern is the basic way to get data from one ViewController to another. 
What about subclassing SCNScene or SCNNode? Or just handling everything in a separate class(es) or function(s) and calling them from the GameViewController?
can you extend gameviewcontroller in separate files? 
What about using custom controllers to group your nodes into logical collections and then pass those controllers around, allowing them to handle node manipulation? 
You need to break up your json into small chunks that are stored separately and then only load the chunks you need. Core data is good for this, but you could also just use a “dumb” file-based approach, each file storing a small chunk of data.
Use a literal instead of a json. If that's still too slow then you have to break it up to multiple literals.
How is the JSON structured? Depending on the root object you could just read in the file a definition at a time.
I have no idea what you just said. Sorry I’m sorta new to swift
Ya but then I can’t redefine the touchesBegan() so I can get that in different things
How would I do the latter of what you just said?
You've found one of the problems with JSON. Parsing JSON is *expensive* compared to other formats. Large JSON is particularly troublesome. Many opt to store multiple JSON objects in a file or stream, keeping each object to a single line and using newline separators to distinguish between each object. Then the cost of serialization of the entire data set might be deferred or parallelized. That said, JSON is likely the wrong storage format for this use case. If you need speed, you likely want a binary storage format. Ideally, you'd want one that lets you readily perform searching and various kinds of matching. At least, those sounds like common use cases. I'd recommend SQLite. It's a compact binary format that performs admirably in scenarios like this. There's a learning curve to using it, but it's not bad and learning SQL is a wonderful tool to put in the toolbox. For your use case, you may consider parsing your current JSON file and storing the data into a SQLite database that you then ship with the application. You could likely load the entire dataset into memory *much* faster than decoding the JSON file, but you'd get even better performance and lower memory usage by leveraging SQL queries to load smaller amounts of data as needed.
This is probably not related but why are you doing this? request.url = NSURL(string: "http://127.0.0.1:5000/") as! URL as! URL There's no need to use `NSURL` in the first place, just use `URL`. Also, there's no need to cast it twice and neither cast should be a force-cast. Instead, this is better: guard let url = URL(string: "http://127.0.0.1:5000/") else { return } var request = URLRequest(url: url) request.httpMethod = "POST" // and so on
Thanks for your comment. I've updated my post with the modifications you suggested and their subsequent messages on both Flask and Xcode.
The fun part is that I created that JSON file from a txt file using python. It is a dict of all accentuated words in Spanish language with key as a clean version and value as accentuated. That is another story. I'll look into SQLite though. Thank you so much! P.S. Essentially, I want to implement live search from UI Table View and I realize that takes a whole lot with JSON. I have to pre-load the whole \[String:String\] dictionary and that is a lot.
`file` is not defined if this is a GET request. So it appears your request method is not set correctly. You should fix it both on the client end (send the right request method) and on the server end to handle gracefully. (disclaimer: I dabble in Swift but I code Python/Flask for a living)
No worries. I’ll try to break down a bit better. What I mean is instead of building more and more on your GameViewController (whether in different files or not) create things like HouseController, ScoreboardController, etc and instantiate them. Have each be responsible for an appropriate set of nodes or at least the behavior and logic. GVC still sits at the center/top, managing everything, but touchesBegan() and friends instead become routers (guides) to the appropriate sub-controller. 
Terminology is wrong. You should be looking into 'adding frameworks' Check out cocoa pods: https://cocoapods.org/
Try storing words in a csv file, it can be read line by line.
Thank you! 
The error is on the python side. You should indent the `if file` block Your code: if request.method == "POST": file = request.files['file'] if file: img = Image.open(file) print("Image successfully loaded.") return render_template("home.html") After corrections: if request.method == "POST": file = request.files['file'] if file: img = Image.open(file) print("Image successfully loaded.") return render_template("home.html")
You don’t need the whole thing loaded. You could for example load a dictionary having only the first one or more letters of each word as keys, then as values have pointers to other dictionaries that get quickly loaded as the user types. Basically a tree. 
That’s our pricing in France for developers. But it could be a bit less, or waaaaaay more.
Thanks for your comment! I made the change you suggested, and the error on the server became "jinja2.exceptions.TemplateRuntimeError: extended multiple times." Any ideas?
Try asking in the python subreddit ..
Hoping this doesn’t sound condescending, what I described is a fairly common aspect of swift programming, and Object Oriented Programming (OOP) in general, so I would suggest you look into following some tutorials and code samples for general swift app development in order to gain a better understanding.
Do you work in France though?
omg, it should be great! haha
Looks like your looking for a file with a key 'file' ? maybe try request.httpBody = try! JSONSerialization.data(["file": png])
Udemy has a Q/A section, no need to spam here.
No, you're limited to those 10.000 users. (Note that it's users and not devices. so a user can have multiple iOS devices and still count as 1) From experience I can say it's not easy to find that many users to test, so you should be fine with that limit? If you want a page where users can register themselves instead of you having to add them manually, check out boarding: https://github.com/fastlane/boarding
Ah that’s pretty much what I feared. I will check out the git hub you’ve linked. Thanks for your help :)
I'm not sure what you're fearing though? 10.000 users is a pretty substantial number. Why do you need more for testing?
No. None. Who knows?
So can any file if it contains line endings. Even then it doesn't make things faster because you still have to find the next line ending. If there was some sort of index to the entries then the access could be made much faster since you could read in the index and use it to read directly at a certain number of bytes in the file. A CSV file isn't going to give you that.
I wonder if it has anything to do with the mixed Swift/Objc nature of iOS. Does anyone know if SPM supports running Objc code?
I use dark sky and love it. Very easy API to work with. 
I’m using Dark Sky for actually weather information and enjoy it also. But from what I know they don’t offer any radar information in their API which is what I’m looking for.
I haven’t found one you don’t have to pay for. I do know NOAA nexrad images are on AWS for free, but to a feat to figure out how get the data.
I did that path over a year ago with another problem that I had... still waiting. BTW, what difference does it make if a Swift question comes from something someone sees in a tutorial or not? If the guy down the street had shown me this code and I questioned it, would it then be allowed in a Swift forum? Was the question NOT about Swift? Does it matter if it was from original thought or a drunken homeless person, or is it that only some Swift questions are allowed in a forum about Swift? How is a Swift question in a Swift forum spam?
https://www.wunderground.com/weather/api/
No worries, I didn’t take it condescendingly I’m a beginner when it comes to swift. I will definitely look into it. Thanks!
Ok I think I get what you are saying in general. For example if I have an enemy SCNNode, I create a class called Enemy and instantiate that to control an enemy node. The only problem with this is that I don’t know **how** I would get the class to control the node. Would I have to subclass SCNScene or SCNNode or something? Like say a button in the UI was pressed, and GVC detects this. I’m assuming I would pass this down the the instance of the enemy class and the enemy class would handle this event, let’s say, the enemy moves forward 1 space. How do I actually control that nodes from within the Enemy class, and in this case, move it forward one space?
Load the ones you need to display immediately, plus some to buffer either side. Load the rest in another thread while the user is using the app.
Please tell me you did a search before posting this. 
I’m not a SceneKit expert so we’re starting to get outside my normal skill set. That said, [this tutorial](https://github.com/rogerboesch/SceneKitTutorial) looks pretty approachable and includes encapsulation like I suggested. 
That’s a hard no considering all the answers you could ever desire with in depth tutorials come up. 
Yeah I went with creating a couple arrays and then deleting everything at once at the end of the function. Thanks again.
why do you not want to pay? I know this isn't a popular attitude to have, but you really shouldn't expect your fellow devs to work for free. That devalues all developers' work. 
Your problem is extremely specific and is basically asking what author of the code had in mind. So it seems like a good idea to ask the author about the code. Maybe try sending an email or something.
Your problem is extremely specific and is basically asking what author of the code had in mind. So it seems like a good idea to ask the author about the code. Maybe try sending an email or something.
I was hoping for something government backed that I pay for through taxes. Like NOAA Nexrad. Seems like that stuff is way too complicated though.
UPDATE: [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28275302/why-is-my-popup-view-is-empty](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28275302/why-is-my-popup-view-is-empty) I needed to drag from files owner to the view and select the view
Apple will soon add a TestFlight Public Link feature that make easier to invite random people on a beta test. No need to collect the mails/ID and enter them manually on TestFlight anymore. And like others said, 10k testers is a lot...
"extremely specific"? Isn't that the whole goal of asking a question? So let me see if I get your logic about what is spam and what is allowed to be asked in a Swift forum... If the origin of the question comes from a tutorial, it's not allowed. If the question is too specific or "extremely specific" it's not allowed. The question is about enums, so anyone that asks any question about enum usage in Swift in a Swift forum is spamming? Does it matter that the question was asked and ANSWERED long before you came along and cried about spam? What about the Array usage question, is that "extremely specific" and not allowed in a Swift forum? Should we clear with you about how specific a question should be before we're allowed to ask in your forum? If a Swift enum question is not allowed because it's spam, what about loading 60000 words, how is that any more or less specific that a question about enums? When you get done polishing your hall monitor badge, maybe just report the thread to the mods. I'm sure being too specific is such a violation of the rules that even viewing the thread is cause for perm-a-ban.
xcworkspace simply groups various xcodeproj files together. You can, if you want, create schemes that are part of the workspace that you can use for building the projects of the workspace. The only reason that I could see where the files don’t show up in the Xcode window where you opened the xcworkspace file is if you have another Xcode window open for the project that contains the missing files. When you have an Xcode workspace open, you shouldn’t have any other Xcode windows open containing any of the projects in the workspace. In regards to Cocoapods, you can develop using your xcodeproj, however, you’ll most likely get compilation errors in your project since the workspace is used for dependency building between your project and the Pods project. 
What's missing mostly is configuring the Xcode build with SPM configuration and all the IDE integration and tooling that would be expected. btw, if you like experimental stuff and are willing to bridge those gaps with custom scripting, you can use SPM to setup dependencies of iOS projects today already: http://www.ralfebert.de/ios-examples/xcode/ios-dependency-management-with-swift-package-manager/
Sorry for the delay, I'm getting the most obscure row values. For an annotation array with maybe 25 points, im getting 180 and more indexpath rows. any ideas?
 status = status == .on ? .off : .on
Yes the playground is buggy. Are they ever going to fix this? Probably not in the near future. What I do every time I come across this problem that the playground keeps loading. I just completely close the program restart it and continue where I left off. There is no ez fix there is nothing you need to change or download. This is something that has to get fixed. tl:dr Close Swift and change the loader to manual by holding the play button.
Shoot, there is just some much that I need to learn about memory management. I guess I should have started of with smaller dictionaries.
So good, thank you! My questions were more around how to use "guard," but i also learned several other things. i've seen things like instance?.method() but never quite knew exactly what that meant, though I had my suspicions. The bit about Optional being an enum was also really interesting and made sense. for some reason when doing an if-let statement i'll slightly rename the optional variable... so ex: if let tempVar = var { print(tempVar) } but i didn't know you could just use the same variable name. well i think i already knew that, but when i was first starting to learn that just confused me so i started using the tempVar standard. i will start writing my code a bit differently!
Can you use Swift to program on anything other than iOS? if you can only use Swift for iOS programming, then it doesn't matter.
Very nice! Thanks again! Sorry for late reply. 
Apple has [sample code](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/samplecode/WatchPuzzle/Introduction/Intro.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40017284) for an app that uses SceneKit with SpriteKit for the UI. It runs on the Apple Watch, but the principals are the same.
https://www.hackingwithswift.com/example-code/arrays/how-to-find-an-item-in-an-array-using-indexof
You don't even need that, there's [contains(where:)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/array/2945493-contains) which will directly return a `Bool` The issue is the OP is doing: if pinArray.contains(pin.title = restaurantName) { Rather than the correct: if pinArray.contains { $0.title = restaurantName } { The latter is syntactic sugar for: if pinArray.contains(where: { $0.title = restaurantName }) { 
This was perfect. One more question though! How would I use the pin instance that is equivalent to the restaurantName in the actual if statement?
Are all nodes children of that parent node? Are some other nodes added outside of it?
This is nice, but why would you go this route instead of just using ReactiveX? 
Noticed that the examples use a value of 100 for the spring damping. I thought the maximum value possible here was 1 as alluded to by the docs (though not explicitly stated): https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiview/1622594-animate Anyone know if there’s any use setting a value above 1? 
Maybe you don’t want to use ReactiveX in an existing codebase?
Yes in fact you can. 
&gt;What would happen to the rest of the layout? Should it be scrollable? So I wanted to maintain the ImageView's size within a given iPhone's portrait dimension when it is in landscape mode. The "pod"/stack of buttons would "swing" to the left or right of the image. The images I am displaying are all a consistent size. &gt;As for creating views using code instead of Storyboard, it's fine. The two approaches both have their advantages, both are valid. This is what I am finding. Many of the beginner level tutorials stressed the need to make everything in storyboards, but I always found the code easier. That being said, I think if you are just trying to rough something out, you really couldn't go wrong. 
&gt; not excatly sure what you want in landscape Rather than it being scrollable, I'd like to have the imageView "block" sit on either the left or right and then the button "block" on the opposite side. Either the user can define these or they can be based on device orientation (since we can detect landscapeLeft vs landscapeRight). Probably super basic question: do you know how or where I might find info about setting these priority widths in code? Basic Googling is not really helping me.
Seems like MVVM used in the article is completely wrong, VM should hold the data (in this case array of jobs) and notify VC when something changes. The title also does not make much sense because enums are not required to refactor delegates, they only improve closures usability by removing cases where callback takes both error and a value (like in `URLSession.shared.dataTask` method). The api client is a bit weird, because it takes a URL but returns parsed data. I would have expected the api client to know how to construct the url.
 (0...3).forEach { buttonStackView.addArrangedSubview(self.makeBlueButton(with: "\($0)")) } I always forget to use the 'forEach'--thanks for that 😀. So I know a scrollView is not what I want for this project as I want the buttons and imageView to be visible on screen always...(at least in this view). I think this means I either have to use a StackView or I have to pre-define a different layout for the landscape case. More and more, I think I need to do the latter of the two and just try and make the view scale across the devices. ::shrugs:: Thanks for taking a look at this though.
 what is allowed to be asked in a Swift forum Obviously it's allowed, I was merely pointing out that Udemy seemed like a better place to ask questions about udemy course. I was not aware that author of the course didn't give a shit about his students and didn't answer questions. The question is about enums It's not about enums, you could have asked basically the same question without using enum at all. When you get done polishing your hall monitor badge Maybe instead of insulting me in rather long comments you could have spend that time learning swift. 
You would probably want to use a different collection function like `if let pin = pinArray.first { $0.name == restaurantName } { ... }` instead of `if pinArray.contains { $0.name == restaurantName } { ... }`. 
You really want to get your JSON into a more performant data structure as soon as possible. A much better in-memory alternative would be a Trie (great for rapid dictionary searching). But an obvious solution would be load it into an SQLite DB (probably could use Core Data as an abstraction on top of SQLite) and benefit from high performance queries.
Enums aren't needed to substitute delegates, so it's a little strange to word the article like you did. Delegates serve the same exact purpose as lambda functions. You can choose whichever one you want. You just pick one. It's not some complicated restructuring and one is not better than the other except delegates are a little more verbose. func didFinishLoadingWithJobs(_ jobs: [Job]?) func didFailedLoadingWithError(_ error: ApiClientError) Can just be replaced with: func getJobs(success: (jobs)=&gt;(), error: (error)=&gt;()); or func getJobs(result: (jobs, error)=&gt;()) like the URLSession method. And I'd recommend not naming function parameters "closure" or typealiases "Closure".
Third-party react frameworks do not equate to using a closure over a delegate callback....that's...insane.
In that case, remove the scroll view and hide all stack view rows below the image view when rotating. Extremely easy with stack views, no need for multiple layouts!
really buggy. never successfully use it. i don't understand why apple still released this crap app.
You are right, this value most definitely shouldn't be \`100\`. In theory values greater than \`1\` should create overdamped springs, but UIKit does not support those. Besides, you would probably not want to use an overdamped spring to drive some animation. Hardcoding the spring animation duration and initial velocity also isn't a great idea, while we're at it. But the projection point still stands. :)
Clearly you're on tilt in a major way. Look at the question and it's got enums all over it. You're fixated on the title that mentions the source, the actual question doesn't even mention Udemy other than as a note for anyone caring to chime in that did the tutorial. It's also about the purpose of the code, which was also discussed. You're so tilted that you can't even see that a question about enums is about enums. Kind of ironic that you've spammed up a perfectly good question with your control fantasy that looks like a scene from Mall Cop. Even more ironic when the captain of the hall monitor club spams up a post for being "extremely specific", yet was a nicely informative question about Swift, is now suggesting someone learn about Swift. **A clue to Mr Hall Monitor: we were learning Swift until you came around and spammed up a perfectly good post that others could have learned from. Maybe save up some money and buy a life, get one more exciting that Hall Monitor next time.**
Your question contains enum but is not about enum, here is the same problem with enum replaced with string: func flipSwitch(status: String) -&gt; String { if status == ".off" { return ".on" } else { return ".off" } } var status: String = ".off" print( status) flipSwitch(status: status) print(status) status = ".on" flipSwitch(status: status) print(status) &gt; A clue to Mr Hall Monitor: we were learning Swift Is this "royal we" you are using?
I'm not sure, but that really sounds straight, word for word out of the official hall monitor guide book. Tell me, did your Mr Hall Monitor kit come with the polished brass whistle? Do you blow the whistle as you polish the Mr Hall Monitor badge? Maybe if you sell your dearly beloved Mr Hall Monitor kit, you can afford to buy a life. There's more important things in life than blowing your whistle when someone asks a Swift question in a Swift forum that you have somehow classified as "spam" because it was "extremely specific". Why haven't you called the Reddit Swat Team, they could have perm-a-banned everyone involved for using a "extremely specific" Swift question in a Swift forum. Maybe Congress can appoint a special council to investigate this. You clearly need help, you really should seek out some help.
Neat, I can definitely see this becoming the new QR code on a business card and the likes
Yea this article is trash. Not sure why he is using delegates in the first place with his ViewModel? I don’t typically use MVVM but from what I’ve seen, completions blocks are the standard way to do async things with them. I guess you could use delegates to notify a VC with new data author acts like closures are some new novel thing.
Yes definitely 
tl;dr An escaping closure that provides (and returns) an enum is semantically identical to a delegate protocol. I think the article needs a better example, possibly even multiple examples to show different levels of complexity. The example he gave only makes sense to those of us who wrote network code before Objective-C included blocks. It would also be nice, although more controversial, if the author tried to give guidance as to when to use each method of delegation.
Thanks for this! This is actually very useful!
This is common on other languages too. Very useful when you are making huge calculation. 
when does didmovetosuperview get called? i usually do my view setting up in view did load.
Yeah seriously. How do people it know this? 
I use didmovetosuperview because I’m subclassing UIView
Hey Downtown, For me, I've spent the last 32 years working in domains where this wasn't the case. I'm an old coder learning Swift, so it was a nice surprise, and I thought I'd share. Sorry if I've offended you in some way.
I think it will be ubiquitous in a few more years. Looking into it, for example, I see TypeScript added support 4 months ago. It just makes sense.
Because needing to hard-code large numerals isn’t exactly a common use case?
As others have said, you're returning a separate instance of \`SwitchStatus\`, that has the opposite value. To edit the value in place, you \*shouldn't\* capture it by referencing the global \`status\` variable directly. Indeed, this would work for one variable, but there's no way to apply it to any other \`SwitchStatus\` besides \`status\`. Instead, you could pass the argument by reference, using \`inout\` (which you probably haven't been taught about yet). func flipSwitch(status: inout SwitchStatus) { status = (status == .off) ? .on : .off` } var status = .on status = flipSwitch(status: &amp;status) // &amp; denotes passing by reference print(status) An even better way to implement this, would be using extensions: extension SwitchStatus { /// flip the value in-place mutating func flip() { self = self.flipped() } /// return a flipped copy func flipped() { return (self == .off) ? .on : .off } }
Wow. That's really odd. But it works. But it's \*really\* odd.
This is good info. It makes sense Swift would make you explicitly type an Array of `Any`.
I remember inout from years ago, I'm not new to learning Swift. inout is what we used to do in the 90's but we didn't call it inout, it was by ref or by value and I've been using that for a few decades now. This code wasn't mine, I got it from a tutorial and I'm trying to figure out the usage of enums. I like the exhaustive case error checking and some other things, but I find no advantage to what this is trying to do. I guess he's showing what enums can do and looking for some example, but I really don't see the real world use of this. Maybe there's an advantage to what the author is trying to do, but I'd just make a class and have a method inside the class. IMO, the whole thing doesn't show off a good use of enums.
I work as a software developer using Swift for a massive company. Didn’t know this. Calm down and don’t be a dick. Thanks OP!
Why downvote? It’s a perfectly valid question. 
SwiftFormat can automatically format numbers like this.
 filter?.outputImage That's of type CIImage. You'll need to convert it to another image type before you can see it. 
Even easier: if let outImage = filter?.outputImage { UIImage(ciImage: outImage) } 
Since Swift has type inference it’s encouraged to leave out type annotation unless necessary for clarity. When using type anotation it’s common to left align the colon. ```swift let easy = 70_000_000_003 let words: UInt = ... ```
For me playgrounds on iPad is stable although limited. Playgrounds in Xcode is unusable.
I am familiar with type inference but would swift be able to recognize that 70_000_000_003 is an Int and not a String? 
Still gives me the same error unfortunately. I've been googling like crazy trying to find anyone else with this issue, but haven't found anything yet. Thanks for the help.
Yes, Strings are within quotes.
Great. Now you can write: var _5 = 5_ var _5_ = 4_ _5 == _5_ 
Oh yeah, thanks
CAEmitterLayer
Modelling a finite set of cases is exactly what enums are for. Using classes would be inappropriate here. Not even sure how you would do it. Use singleton objects to model the on and off cases and compare identity against those? That wouldn't make any sense to do.
Lol oh god
Yep, you're right, and I should know better by now :) old habits hard to break :) 
Hey LiveLaughLift, Remember a string literal would be enclosed in quotes like, let myMessage = "This is a string" Because 70\_000\_000\_003 is not in quotes, the compiler evaluates it as a number. Have you ever wondered why you can't start a variable or function name with a number? This is one reason why they must start with a letter or an underscore. It makes identifying numeric literals so much easier by the compiler if it knows if it runs into a numeric "token" it must be a literal. To learn more about how the compiler handles literals, check out: [https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/ReferenceManual/LexicalStructure.html](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/ReferenceManual/LexicalStructure.html) Hope this makes sense.
Should be: bglDivDefaults.set(bglDivTextField.text ?: "", forKey: "bglDivData") that is, you can't save the UITextField on disk, but you can save the text it holds. And of course you'll need code for setting the value into the UITextField from ```bglDivDefaults``` early in its life cycle.
But why reinvent the wheel? A SQLite file would do pretty much the same (or better) and the code to create/use it already exists and is optimized for you.
LOL! I think you've stumbled across the answer all parents have had for a while about common core and new math: let _2 = 3 if _2 + 2_ == 5_ { print( "It sure does") } 
10 years behind you. Finding the time to learn languages outside of work is tough.
I run a weather company that has this data available. It covers the US and most of Southern Canada. The XYZ tiles are very easy to incorporate into MKMapView. I would be willing to discuss the data more and negotiate the price if you’re interested. Shoot me a PM.
I only knew because I read the Swift book by Apple when it came out. Otherwise I haven’t seen it in tutorials, except in books by Ray Wenderlich. 
I have also read that leaving out the type annotation can make the Swift compiler take longer to process your code in big projects, so it would take longer for warnings or errors to show up when they’re supposed to. The project I work on at work is so massive that the text doesn’t even color anymore, the syntax highlighting is gone, and errors and warnings don’t appear until actually building the project. 
Not only a memory management thing. You should’ve also asked yourself, “what is the most efficient way to do this?”
Yeah, it’s encouraged to type annotate when it is complex to inference the type. IIRC there is a compiler flag to tell you where it spends its time. More info [here](https://www.jessesquires.com/blog/measuring-compile-times-xcode9/). 
Asking here by questioning an established course on their code is helping them learn Swift. Being an idiot like you isn’t. 
A class is for creating objects. The enum makes code easier to read and also helps in minimizing what a variable can be. There’s nothing wrong with the enum. The original function you stated isn’t useless, depending how many times you’ll be performing that action. It prevents repeated code. The only problem with the function was accepting an argument. 
Thanks for the link, but I think I'll stick with Carthage for now, it is more straightforward.
others'* YouTube videos : /
Swift is all about readabilit (and writability). Love it. 
The code posted was directly from the tutorial. I noticed it didn't actually change anything while watching the video. I understand the use of enum, but the use of the function is what I question. IIRC, you can setup an enum and use it on an instance. I don't remember if you can have an enum exclusive to a class or not, but the function doesn't really have any advantage that I can see, the enum does, but I just don't see the function having any advantage over any other function inside of a class. What's the point of doing this with an enum vs just using an enum on a function that's inside of a class?
Get permission.
Would be the nicest thing to do, but I think once a video is posted on YouTube other people can freely link to it, check out YouTube’s guidelines for this. Would still be nice to ask permission of course.
I can only recommend what I know and what I've tested on my app. I'm using [Firebase ](https://firebase.google.com/)for 'traditional' analytics and [Appsee](https://www.appsee.com/) for user behavior and UX optimization. If you really want to be able to optimize your UX and user funnels, then Appsee is the way to go IMHO.
Ruby, Python, PHP, Go, and many others have had this for a while. It’s pretty good. 
Go does not allow this. https://github.com/golang/go/issues/42
Here is the official documentation https://www.youtube.com/yt/about/copyright/fair-use/
Probably not. But it's likely not going to get noticed. Particle textures tend to look all the same anyway.
thank you
ok thank u
sure, thanks for the help 
Imo you shouldn’t be doing it in storyboard because it is not visible to another code. But it is not required.
IMO if you have this as your requirement then you can only do in storyboard, it should not make any difference while adding same code in view did load.
This is a very good point, thank you. 
Or if you your UI configuration in Storyboards, for the love of god, be consistent throughout your whole project. You want maintainers (including you 6 months from now) to easily be able to find things. 
The enum and the function don’t have to be global. You can put them inside a class and only that class will be able to use it. I’m guessing the Devslopes video had it global? You only use an enum global if it will be used in multiple files; same with the function. If it’s going to be used in many different areas, you have a convenient function to toggle the enum. This prevents copy and pasted code that would toggle the enum that would be convenient to do with a method.
Yeah. You’re right. Maybe that ticket was what I was thinking. 
New iPad is just fine. Got both and haven’t really seen any major differences between them (computing power wise) 
Alright. You just saved me nearly 400 bucks. 
It's completely fine doing it in the storyboard. 
What’s the deal with Swif Playground app, is it more than strange game for kids? I played a bit with it and it feels like it’s designed only for small kids to teach them very basic concepts of programming. Am I missing something, is it more than that? 
I have booth the iPad Pro and MacBook Pro. Started of with learning Swift in playground on the iPad Pro, but I feel that i didn’t even have to go through playgrounds to be able to start learning more advanced swift in Xcode on the MacBook. If your intention with buying a iPad is to learn swift, then I think it would be better to buy a MacBook and learn from videos. The really best swift education videos are the videos from Stanford University. 10/10 
If you know the basic concepts of programming, then it probably will be a waste of time for you. I’m just coming from a web development background. I figured this would be a good way to learn swift language for IOS development. Probably won’t be enough, but it is a good way to start. 
Oh I have a MacBook Pro. I wanted the iPad for swift playground and to watch them Stanford videos while coding on the MacBook Pro at the same time. Regardless, I still would need to buy an iPad for iOS development. 
Ok alright well thought out. Feels like we have the same idea with having a iPad and a Mac but if you haven’t already thought about the use of pencil then. If your intentions is to be able to make an entire game by yourself then take the iPad Pro or the new iPad that supports the Apple Pencil so that you can animate the objects and draw characters, objects or whatever assets your game needs
Making a game have always been one of my long term goals. It will probably take me 6 to 8 months before I’m comfortable enough start a project of that level and I rather get the newer iPad Pro when that happen. I’m already saving up for the new MacBook Pro, which suppose to have 6 core in the 15 inches version. So I’ll be ready to start major project when I’m good enough. For now, this regular iPad/MacBook Pro combo is good enough to take my skills from 20 to 100.
Try a simple case and see.
It doesn't matter.
This. Same goes for colors, rounded corners, fonts, etc. Storyboards are great for quickly setting up constraints and getting a general idea of what the screen will look like before hitting run, but ultimately these types of things should be set in code so a future developer won’t be confused as to why your views have rounded corners because you set them in the user defined properties of the storyboard or nib.
Yes it does, SPM supports Swift, C, C++, Objective-C and Objective-C++.
The link doesn’t seem to work properly. I get an error message...
Any chance on a transcript? Watching a video on coding is pretty tiresome. I'd love to see the concept you're getting across in a more static format.
It was in a playground but he was just trying to make a point. I understand the use of enum and how that can be used with a class. I think I've done examples of this before. You define an enum, then have a case that uses that enum inside of a function inside of a class. It's the function that concerns me. I just don't see an advantage to having that function to act upon an enum when you can have a function inside of a class that would do the same thing and have controlled access to the data. Maybe it's functional programming thing, IDK, but what advantage does it have? Maybe I just don't see any real world advantage to the function part. The enum advantage is clear.
Now that WWDC has passed, I can relax a little and take a break from Swift. Just kidding – I'm working on a new book called [Practical iOS 12](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/store/practical-ios12), and I'm also working on a new app to help teach Swift in a more interactive way. The book is taking shape slowly, and I'm releasing new chapters as soon as they are finished. It covers Create ML for machine learning, ARKit 2.0 for object recognition and tracking, and more. You can buy it today and you'll just get new updates on a regular basis. As for the app, I'm busy working on it and hope to release the code soon. My plan is to open source the code before I actually put it on the App Store, because I want folks to benefit from reading the code as much as they can from actually using the app. It will be available for free, with no in-app purchases. [I released a short preview video here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/atzhip7esxeszwt/Unwrap.mp4?dl=0) so you can see what I have so far, but if you want to see my latest progress you should follow me on Twitter: [@twostraws](https://twitter.com/twostraws).
Does that occur on a mobile device? If yes, please retry from a computer.
The video is only 2 minutes long. But I'm going to provide a transcript on my website soon.
Do NOT buy an iPad for Swift playgrounds... That's like buying a Porsche just to get CarPlay. If you want a Porsche then it's fine. But CarPlay is not why you should get it.
I’m working on a modern markdown editor for macOS called [Twig](https://github.com/lukakerr/twig). While it may be an unoriginal idea, I wanted to build it to improve my Swift and AppKit knowledge. Also I couldn’t find a native markdown editor I loved, so why not build one
CAN U PLEASE PUT UR RELEASES ON CLOUD THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
If you do decide to hide it in your storyboard make sure to add that detail to your documentation. 
By doing it on code you are also improving your project's testability as now you can test that the view is actually hidden when you are expecting it to be by using regular unit tests(no snapshot tests) :)
I like short and sweet videos like this. Thanks for posting. 
It makes a huge difference. If you do it both in storyboard and in code, then maintainers will get very confused when they change the property in one but it doesn't change. Doing it in both places is a horrible violation of DRY.
Agreed, my intent was same but after reading back my comment I thing wordings can be improved. 
Updated link for OP. https://youtube.com/watch?v=LdIib-SrOmk
&gt; It's the function that concerns me. I just don't see an advantage to having that function to act upon an enum when you can have a function inside of a class that would do the same thing and have controlled access to the data. You’re not understanding what I said. The point of the function having an argument is in case you have other variables that are also the same enum type. That way, you don’t conflict between different enum variables and can be certain the one you’re passing in related to the one you want to change. The function is not specific to 1 variable of that enum type. It works for all of them. M Like I said, having the function inside it’s class prevents it from being used in other classes, so then you end up with copied and pasted code. Unless you make a protocol and add an extension on it so you don’t repeat the function. So I have a question for you, suppose you are working on a big project with over 50+ swift files. Suppose you have many variables that are the same enum type. And also suppose you’ll want to toggle them between on and off several times in several files in several locations. How would you do it? Are you going to copy and paste the same function in all of the files? Removing the argument prevents it from deciding which to toggle if you have multiple of the same variable types. 
Just released a new app and are working on little bugs and tweaks before I start plugging it. Also tidying up a mobile app development course I'm gong to start teaching in a week and a half.
This is also a plus. I was just giving advise if it’s done in storyboard. 
Thanks! It's not the length so much as the static vs active presentation format, I tend to relate better to static images when viewing code.
You do know majorly of IOS developers use iPad to test their app. I didn’t mention that in the opening post, but I’m sure a smart man like you would’ve figure it out by reading the other comments before commenting. 
I have no idea how you managed to take offense to my post, but you did so congrats. 
Thanks for your comment. I indented the if statement which begins with "if file" as suggested by the other comments, and that resolved the error on the server I was getting as described in my post. Now, I've been stuck on trying to debug this "jinja2.exceptions.TemplateRuntimeError: extended multiple times" error, but am struggling to figure this one out. Do you have any ideas? Thanks!
Thanks for your comment. I indented the if statement which begins with "if file" as suggested by the other comments, and that resolved the error on the server I was getting as described in my post. Now, I've been stuck on trying to debug this "jinja2.exceptions.TemplateRuntimeError: extended multiple times" error, but am struggling to figure this one out. Do you have any ideas? Thanks!
So you're saying that because this function has global scope it would be better to use across many files. I can see that.
That’s what I’ve been saying the whole time. 
It sounds like you're using `{%extend "sometemplate.html" %}` but that command is in a for loop or otherwise nested somehow (you can only extend once)
Do people honestly not know how to do this?
Building a new location tracking app since moves is shutting down. Debating whether to pick it into my other quantified self app or also make it a standalone release. 🗺
WTF? Why? OP, we need more information. Why aren't you using a MacBook? 
&gt;The correct code would be: &gt; &gt;`if pinArray.contains { $0.title = restaurantName } {` You can't actually use the trailing closure syntax inside an \`if\` statement.
It’s pretty amazing. What UI elements did you use to built the code editor where you tap on the elements to put them in place? I would definitely recommend this app at the SwiftCoders meetup nest time I do a session. When’s the release date? Are you going to have an advanced version as well? And are you doing beta testing? The challenges are pretty simple but I’m definitely interested in it as a teaching tool. 
I don’t know why you’re downvoted. This is clearly part of the standard library and not that weird of a comment
So if someone decides to learn Swift today they should already know this? 
Is force unwrapping a good idea here? I haven't tried it, but what if a malformed "URL" was passed to it, would it crash the app with an unwrapping error?
Xcode 9.4.1 Playground is more stable for me. i had same issues posted above everyday until today after i updated. I was able to use Playground with Auto Run for 2+ hours continuously without having to Force Quit. My best time yet 
That's a slippery slope to programmatic layout. Maybe it's easier to set up views and constraints in storyboard, but then you have to switch between files, connect outlets, etc. maybe better just do all of this in one place.
Been developing in swift for a while and didn’t know about this protocol family. I found this pretty useful.
There's a lot of little-used stuff in the standard library though.
I see. You can find the transcript [on my webpage](http://www.leakka.com/2018/07/09/heres-how-to-construct-a-swift-type-from-a-string/).
It would indeed crash, but so would the code `URL(string: ...)!` with an invalid url ¯\\\\\\\_(ツ)\_/¯ IMO this behaviour is fine (both `URL(string: "...")!` and the string literal) because you'll absolutely notice it if it's an invalid url. In that regard it's not unlike using implicitly unwrapped optionals for `IBOutlet`s.
As others said, you can of course do it in the Storyboard. The more important thing is: Never duplicate things "for safety purposes" because you don't trust some part of your app, you'll suffer for it. Your example shows why well: If I had to work with your project, I'd find the hidden property both in the storyboard and in code. But if the view is hidden in both the storyboard and in code, I'd probably try to change the property in the storyboard, and it just wouldn't work. That would cause quite a WTF moment. If you don't trust one of the components to do the right thing (in this case, loading the hidden property from the storyboard), write a unit test to verify that it works. Basically, by doing the "saftey" thing you just duplicate the number of places you need to change to make the view visible, you duplicate the places where bugs can sneak in, and you confuse the hell out of people.
I agree, I would prefer a blogpost. 
Here's some code to print the difference, unless the poll has expired: // Setting up let dateFormatter = ISO8601DateFormatter() dateFormatter.formatOptions = .withInternetDateTime guard let currentDate = dateFormatter.date(from: "1985-04-12T23:20:50Z"), let pollExpirationDate = dateFormatter.date(from: "1985-04-15T13:40:10Z") else { print("Couldn't parse date") return } print(currentDate) print(pollExpirationDate) // Real code starts guard currentDate.compare(pollExpirationDate) == .orderedAscending else { print("Poll expired") return } let diff = Calendar.current.dateComponents([.day, .hour, .minute, .second], from: currentDate, to: pollExpirationDate) if let days = diff.day, let hours = diff.hour, let minutes = diff.minute, let seconds = diff.second { print("\(days)d \(hours)h \(minutes)min \(seconds)s") } else { fatalError() }
&gt; What UI elements did you use to built the code editor where you tap on the elements to put them in place? I just use collection views; they make it easier for users to rearrange words if they make a mistake. &gt; I would definitely recommend this app at the SwiftCoders meetup nest time I do a session. Great! &gt; When’s the release date? I don't have anything specific in mind just yet. &gt; Are you going to have an advanced version as well? Not at launch, no. &gt; And are you doing beta testing? I'll be releasing the code to GitHub so everyone can try it out. &gt; The challenges are pretty simple but I’m definitely interested in it as a teaching tool. At this point the challenges are more of a proof of concept than anything else – if I can make them work with simple things then I should be able to make them work with more advanced things too.
I used to write blog posts, but video tutorials seem to work better for most students. Lately, I started providing the transcripts [on my website](http://www.leakka.com/2018/07/09/heres-how-to-construct-a-swift-type-from-a-string/).
TheExpressibleByStringLiteral protocol conformance requires us to implement an initializer that is non-failable. So, it either returns a valid URL instance or it has to fail.
Yep, right.
Honest question - isn't that what the simulators in Xcode are for? I'm also in the market for an iPad, and have very little Swift/coding experience. Leaning towards the Pro because I'd like to sketch out product designs and think the subtle lag, screen gap, and screen glare of the standard iPad will bother me (coming from a Wacom background).
I wonder why. A blogpost would be able to convey the same concept in much shorter time then the 2 minute video. 
You can but you're right that this is a syntax error. To do it I'd have to put the statement in parentheses: if (pinArray.contains { $0.title = restaurantName }) {
Thanks for providing it!
Sounds cool! Make it separate with possible integration? :)
That's a good sign that using it in this instance is a bad idea. Since the URL could be invalid you need a failable initializer. If the protocol doesn't allow for that then you can't use it. It would be far worse to use it and have it crash unexpectedly than the marginal amount of utility it provides.
Wasn’t it taken away in Swift 2 or something? Some may not have gotten the memo it came back.
In Xcode: File-&gt;New-&gt;Project... then choose macOS and Command Line Tool, that will give you a project that has no GUI.
thank you!
If you are wanting to create a website/server api in swift then I highly recommend ([Vapor](https://vapor.codes). Version 3 is one of the fastest web frameworks currently available.
As someone who is learning swift on my own, no I didn't know how to do this.
Oh you’re open sourcing it! I saw your post on Twitter and totally forgot you said that. Awesome. 
so you think Vapor is superior to Kitura? 
I have to agree.
Yeah, I played around with both and I personally prefer Vapor. Vapor’s “asynchronous everything/everywhere” syntax is weird and take a bit of time to get used to, but because of that it is reasonably faster than Kitura. If you are new to api design Kitura may have a more natural feel but Vapor is better long term imo
I am also new to Async programming. If anyone could point to some good resources on how to implement async code that would be much appreciated!
Format code by indenting each line by four spaces. 
Fair enough!
Thanks for posting, I'll dig into pretty soon.
The ones on iTunes U right?
&gt;Make url\_z optional and write a custom init from coder to handle both int and string for height. FYI - I ended up finding a solution that worked for what I needed. Pretty much I was fine with ignoring anything where the data type didn't match, this solution worked out for me: [https://stackoverflow.com/a/46713058/3703566](https://stackoverflow.com/a/46713058/3703566)
Tabs didn't work, so I've used dots.
I have found videos from Stanford on YouTube that teaches Xcode 11. I don’t know what educations there are on iTunes but Stanford have really worked out for me. 
There's a bug in playgrounds that hits a lot of people. When you open one the first thing to do is to switch it to manual running. You hold down on the bottom left play/pause button and select "manual" from the pop-up menu, save the playground, then restart Xcode. Then you hit the "play" button whenever you're done editing the code to see the running results.
i believe captureSession.canAddInput(videoDeviceInput) is a boolean. you can add a boolean evaluation after an if let statement 
That didn't work, unless I did it wrong. I opened up a new playground, turned it to manual, then quit XCode, then re opened my playground and it immediately started off saying "running MyPlayground"
Did you save it? 
just kidding it worked! I guess I just had to wait like 20 seconds. Thanks for the help, I would not have discovered this bug through a simple google search. Thanks!
Glad to hear it. Yeah, it's a bug we've discussed a few times on the sub here but it certainly doesn't have top billing in a search. Hopefully they address it soon.
It’s really embarrassing that they’re using playgrounds as a way of introducing people to swift and iOS development in general but it just has these glaring problems. I guess it’s a realistic introduction to Xcode at least 
Think of it like a stupid way to do logical and (&amp;&amp;). In earlier versions of swift they used a where clause instead of the comma. IE, if let videoDeviceInput = try? AVCaptureDeviceInput(device: videoDevice!) where captureSession.canAddInput(videoDeviceInput) { // at this point videoDeviceInput is initialized *and* `canAddInput` returned true. } The above makes a little more sense, but falls down when you want to do another `let` conditional on the result of the where, so they changed it to a comma.
You might want to look at some upgrades to the mac. RAM and SSD are the easy ones. I know that some macs are hard to upgrade the memory so maybe the largest fastest SSD you can find. You can find bench marks for Read/Write speeds. Xcode has seen better days in terms of performance.
Such a great resource. So glad it’s back. 
That's what I suspected. Syntax feels difficult to get accustomed to (maybe because I only have experience with an easy language such as Python). Thank you!
Thank you =)
Yawn
TL;DR [SwiftDoc](http://swiftdoc.org/) will be updated to 4.2 by the end of the week. And there was much rejoicing.
It's utterly bizarre. Every time we get an Xcode update, I try and give up in disgust. It's simply easiest to start a new project and paste my code in viewDidLoad().
Stop using Playgrounds and simply start a new iPhone project. Run your code in viewDidLoad. It's ridiculous but it's the most reliable way to learn Swift.
Apperently playground devs were relocated to implement poop animoji.
Love the fact you’re open sourcing it. Wish more apps would do this, although I understand why they don’t. I just recently finished a coding boot camp and would’ve loved to be able to see popular apps code for reference in my own app. More than anything just the UI stuff. The app overall looks great though 👍
Can’t remember where I saw it but somebody had posted an article of their experience getting their first app made through companies. They paid around $15k and it ended up being a dud. He then changed his strategy to make a simpler game and he just re-skinned it a bunch of times and ended up making almost a million dollars in a year. I wouldn’t suggest putting all your eggs into one basket unless you’ve really done some research. Not all app ideas are going to take off, in fact very few. I would definitely suggest finding someone with experience you can talk to about your idea to help give you a decent expectation of whether it’s worth pursuing, how difficult it would be and the time/cost you can expect. 
I’ve finished a dev boot camp about two weeks ago. Closures and delegates were very foggy to me when I found the “code swift” app. I decided to spend the $9 to unlock all the courses. It’s nothing too crazy but the developer did a good job of waking you through the steps and showing you how the code works together. Wish I had found it sooner into my bootcamp, if I had I think it would’ve helped A LOT. I haven’t looked into above users apps he suggested but he is right in diversifying. Everybody learns differently, there are tons of tutorials out there and I’m sure someone will explain things just right for you. 
You definitely do. You also learn about a lot of the intricacies and properties of views that you may not have noticed yet. There is a bit of a learning curve but a lot of more experienced developers prefer this method. Especially when creating a large app it is much easier to tweak your layout in code and not have it mess up everything else. 
A lot of the job postings asking for 3-5 years for a junior/entry level dev are written up by HR/Recruiters who don’t know what they’re talking about. Connections inside the industry are definitely the best way to get in, but you can’t be afraid to apply for jobs asking for 3-5 years depending on the area you’re in(if you’re in San Francisco you probably better know your shit). As long as you have a few apps to showcase your skills and get you into the interview you just need to be able to show your willingness to work hard and learn along with a decent grasp of concepts and technical abilities. 
Very exciting!
The better alternative, IMHO, is to create a CLI application with the SPM and put all your "playground" code in the main.swift. Yes, playgrounds might be more ergonomic, if they worked, but currently they're too broken.
I really don't see much being offered for Jr dev in iOS. IMO, that's really the heart of the problem is the they want people with quite a bit of knowledge when it comes to iOS and that the jobs are concentrated in tech hubs.
Incidentally, a simpler version of that specific example would be if case .some(4) = optionalIntegerFunc() { // do things } 
Why not as a MacOS comand line tool?
You basically embed it into your app: [Python Interoperability](https://github.com/tensorflow/swift/blob/master/docs/PythonInteroperability.md)
[Permanent](https://help.github.com/articles/getting-permanent-links-to-files/#press-y-to-permalink-to-a-file-in-a-specific-commit) GitHub links: * [tensorflow/swift/.../**PythonInteroperability.md** (master → 9667336)](https://github.com/tensorflow/swift/blob/9667336c33883563ef24c363b312e69263b6d5b5/docs/PythonInteroperability.md) ---- 
In all honesty it's just for experiments sake
Well, it can certainly be done but it's not something I'd want to do in a shipping app unless it provided huge benefits. If I needed to do some scripting within the app (say, game logic for a level) I'd probably use [Lua](https://www.lua.org), [Squirrel](http://squirrel-lang.org), or even Javascript since it's already [part of iOS](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/javascriptcore).
Thanks for sharing! I got a few errors trying to run the sample code. Seems the SampleFetcherObjC.h and .m are missing, as well as the MediaPlayer.framework's Pods\_AmbrosusSDK\_Example frameworks and test frameworks. It looks like an interesting project, I'd like to learn more about it.
I'm glad *he's* back. He gave so much to the Apple community. I can't wait to see what all he does now that he's no longer at Apple.
Will take a look into this. Thanks for the heads up!
So instead of returning a value sychronously, you're going to have to wait until the data task completes asyncronously. The best way to do that is to have a completion handler with your desired data type as a parameter, then call that handler if/when the data is available. You also want to cover the case where data is not available, so I've just used an optional to cover that here: static func getMissionData(postFixURL: String, then completion: @escaping (Mission?) -&gt; Void) { let apiUrl = URL(string: "https://api.X.com/\(postFixURL))") URLSession.shared.dataTask(with: apiUrl!) { (data, response, error) in guard let data = data else { // No data, callback with nil completion(nil) return } do { let mission = try JSONDecoder().decode(Mission.self, from: data) // Success! completion(mission) } catch let err { print(err.localizedDescription) completion(nil) } }.resume() } Check out [this article](https://www.swiftbysundell.com/posts/the-power-of-result-types-in-swift) for a more elegant way to handle the results of API calls.
I am very sad to see that Codable is in the bottom half. I know that this might be connected that in codable things are done under the hood by reflection probably but still a bummer.
I'd say that encoding/decoding speed is one of the last measurements you should care about with JSON. It really should not be part of any performance-critical section of your code. You should use JSON as a way to easily interchange data between different systems but there are much more performant ways to store and access data. What you should care about is ease-of-use, preventing crashes, and guarding against bad data access. For these things `Codable` does an admirable job. There really is little reason to include an outside framework or library just for JSON. Doing so adds an extra layer to your app that you have to maintain and is unnecessary.
Honestly it kinda looks like how a lot of people do MVVM with RxSwift
Those are way too convenient, how are we supposed to complain about how ridiculous everything is now?
I'd be curious to see Codable performance where the CodingKeys are defined. I'm also wondering if the Author is using .convertFromSnakeCase, which can significantly degrade the performance of Codable.
iPad models supporting iOS 12 12.9-inch iPad Pro 2nd generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro 1st generation 10.5-inch iPad Pro 9.7-inch iPad Pro 9.7-inch iPad 6th generation (2018) iPad 5th generation (2017) iPad Air 2 iPad Air iPad mini 4 iPad mini 3 iPad mini 2
It’s almost like if you have a post about coding there *should* be some actual code posted… Instead there’s just the usual half-assed Medium post that we’ve come to expect from that cesspool. It’s all about the style of the infographics instead of the substance of the code. 
It’s just two circles so fill a large white one then stroke a black one that’s slightly smaller but they both have a common center. 
raywenderlich.com Monthly subscription but appears to be the community’s most recommended. For me personally, it’s been a massive help.
Cheers buddy. I just signed up to a udemy course. I’m a total Noob. Would you recommend raywenderlich?
I’ve purchased a few Udemy courses. I’ve actually been all over the web in terms of tutorial sites. I absolutely recommend Ray Wenderlich. Their book “iOS Apprentice” is what was finally able to get me to understand iOS development.
I also came from web almost a year ago and haven’t looked back.
No, the camera shutter button isn't one of the default widgets. You're going to have to write some code.
You came from a web background? It’s really annoying me. I don’t want anything to do with it anymore 😄. Are you in an app job? How did you transition? Tell me everything 
I only began my programming journey around Feb of 2017. Switched from web (full-stack) to iOS in Aug 2017. I work at a small software company part-time doing QA and WordPress but I usually spend more time working on my own dev projects at home. I’ve got two apps in the works, one that I plan to launch in the App Store in a few months and the other just a personal project and portfolio-filler.
I see. So you hope to transition to an app role? Wouldn’t that benefit you? 
Absolutely. Immensely. What are your woes with web?
It’s just boring. Maybe because I use it for marketing purposes. Little stuff like blogs, marketing sites and email. I’m more interested in products. I’ve always been. 
Any chance you can share the working code?
I’ve been doing iOS development for many years now and I’ve done MVVM, MVP, REDUX, VIPER, etc and a lot of these patterns feel like they are trying to solve a problem that doesn’t exist. What if I told you that there are ways to write good quality, reusable code without needing to follow a fad
Yeah ... you've gone too far mannnn
Of course MVP or VIPER can produce high quality and cohesive code, but I would argue that reactive systems are more flexible and more robust than their object oriented counterparts. MVVM, REDUX and MVI are all a shift towards reactive adoption, I thought I would present my preferred option so far.
I disagree with this thought process. Json is super slow in comparison to thrift and protobuf. You should always be looking for the best tool to do the job. I have used json and thrift in a large project and the difference is significant. Protobuf was made by google and swift protobuf is made by Apple. Here is to hoping Apple adding it in swift 5/6. Try it out for yourself before dismissing it. 
here you go [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPA-ayBrweUzGFmkT\_W65z64MoGnKRZMq](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPA-ayBrweUzGFmkT_W65z64MoGnKRZMq)
Wait do you actually recommend that as a good idea? Keep in mind I've never coded any project before, only a Java course and practice Python online. So I'm not too familiar with the Cocoa Framework and whatnot. But if you think that's best then why not...
Yeah...definite over engineered 
Brevity is key 
Awesome thanks! 
Gotcha. I can see how that could get boring. Product development is definitely my passion. Planning, designing, developing, even deploying I’d imagine. There’s always more to learn, too.
I’ve been meaning to reply to this post for months but wanted to give it its full respect. I’m typing this now to say we should collaborate on a project using Haskell sometime. I realized I was WAY over my head with QLCPlus so now, I’m just looking for a way to learn Haskell by building something. Was thinking of building a movie renaming/library sorting program that takes the best aspects of TinyMediaManager and Filebot and combines them. I have a huge Kodi library so it would be fun. I’d want to make it usable on Ubuntu Linux. If you have any ideas for a worthy (and not TOO ambitious) project that we might collaborate on, I’d be VERY interested. I’m interested in database management front ends of some sort because they are so versatile for so many reason. It’s just that QLCPlus was WAY too big of a project for me to learn Haskell doing. I barely even got past making a DMX data type in Haskell when I realized I was a fool.
Its a totally good idea. You have a live project open and you can "print(VARIABLE_RESULT)" after you do whatever calculations you did in vewDidLoad. This way, you can get some actual stuff done and see the results right away instead of being limited by having no access to outside data in playgrounds.
That's probably a better idea, I agree!
Thank you. Ah, it's called a camera shutter. 
I have a bachelors degrees in mixed multimedia. Most of my work involved web development. I’m actually in a web dev role now on the marketing side of stuff. However, I’m more interested in mobile and product. I’d like to transition to mobile over the course of a year and or two but obviously build my own apps first. I’m lucky enough to have worked for big companies intact my current company have an IOS department... I think it’s achievable to transition but I’m interested in your opinion. 
I'm a little new to iOS developpment, so forgive me for the viewDidLoad thing. Does that mean I'm supposed to run all my code inside of it??? viewDidLoad()? And where in the project do I run it? Sorry, I just need a bit more clarification. r/explainlikeimfive lol
&gt;but I would argue that reactive systems are more flexible and more robust than their object oriented counterparts. Sorry but was there supposed to be an argument there? All I heard was something something reactive flexible something reactive but not anything actually arguing why it’s better. 
Not that I’ve seen. 
I found [this](https://discord.gg/Sfc3n7q) group but I am not sure that is official subreddit's one.
thank you - i didn't think about searching by which ones could support ios12.. makes sense. i saw some on amazon that were refurbished and had ios4 or ios6 installed on them which was confusing me. but duh, of course you could just upgrade the ios. cheers!
Looks like with Xcode 9.4.1 you can target all the way back to iOS 8.0. That would mean that the iPad 2 and the original mini would be supported. I think both of those can run iOS 9, so you'd probably want to go with that. You won't be able to use any of the newer iOS stuff, but you could deploy code to the hardware. I may be wrong in this, and if I am someone please correct me. You'll get bonus internet points!
I found a “Hacking with MacOS” series on udemy that was fantastic. I did end up buying a few more videos from the same instructor but they weren’t as good (dive into SpriteKit, essential ios11, neither of those were as good as the hacking with videos). https://www.udemy.com/hacking-with-macos-and-swift4/learn/v4/overview
thank you so much for the input-- makes sense! yea i'm looking at what devices are going to be able to upgrade to ios12.. its a tough call.
A shutter button is called that because it used to activate the shutter of the camera when it was activated. Now the button and the name is used as a symbol for taking a picture.
https://www.tekrevue.com/ios-12-system-requirements/
If I am not mistaken, Codable stuff is compiler-generated at compile time. I don't have a source off-hand, but I think I've also seen an idea floated that at some indeterminate future time it could be moved to macros, if/when Swift gets a _proper_^1 macro system. ^1 – _proper_ as in more like Rust than C
Why don’t you tell us what you straight up don’t get? Then maybe we can point you in the right direction.
Thanks! 
[You're welcome](https://github.com/mczachurski/SwiftBenchmarkJSON)
Very nice, thanks for putting up the link. Was it there already and I missed it? I try to keep an eye out for those things but sometimes they get overlooked. I'll have to browse through the code and understand the implementations better.
Wait until you’re 9 months in and still feel that way...
It was after the second benchmark figure. Could have been at the beginning or end, IMO, but can't say it wasn't there.
[No CodingKeys and no snake case](https://github.com/mczachurski/SwiftBenchmarkJSON/blob/master/Codable/Sources/Benchmark/TaskDto.swift)
[Permanent](https://help.github.com/articles/getting-permanent-links-to-files/#press-y-to-permalink-to-a-file-in-a-specific-commit) GitHub links: * [mczachurski/SwiftBenchmarkJSON/.../**TaskDto.swift** (master → 0943659)](https://github.com/mczachurski/SwiftBenchmarkJSON/blob/09436593a4c22a9d2789ae4320a60a69bda55b38/Codable/Sources/Benchmark/TaskDto.swift) ---- 
[https://ios-developers.io](https://ios-developers.io)
 sharper 
Sounds like there was an assumption you knew something you didn't, and that's an instructor error, not yours.
Try cameraPreviewLayer?.frame = self.ImagePreview.frame Instead of self.view.frame On mobile so I apologize for any typos there
What do you mean? 
Thank you. I tried your suggestion, but I still have the same problem. I added another picture of main-storyboard. For some reason, I can't seem to make changes to coordinates/dimensions of "ImagePreview". They are grayed out as seen in the new picture. I wonder if that has anything to do with it. 
Wait till your 2 years in and still feel the same
You don’t need a singleton for that. Just pass a reference to your data store to each view controller.
Issues with this benchmark * I don't understand this comparison, Codable is just a protocol. It's the JSONEncoder/Decoder that can be benchmarked. He kind of mentions this but not very clearly. You could potentially write your own JSON Encoder/Decoder using Codable that would be faster. * SwiftProtobuf isn't even JSON, which he says in the article, but doesn't fit in a benchmark between JSON parsers * ObjectMapper and PMJSON benchmarked starting with a JSON string, not Data * ObjectMapper encodes to a String, and PMJSON encodes to its enum, not Data * The encoding for Marshal is doing the conversion from an object to a dictionary before the evaluation starts, so it's really only testing NSJsonSerialization's performance * The Codable test instantiates a new DateFormatter every test where as the Mapper and PMJSON implementation instantiates one once (date formatters take a long time to instantiate) * Marshal doesn't really do too much. It's a small framework that requires your objects have initializers that pull values from a dictionary generated from NSJsonSerialization * While there's nothing really wrong with testing on a Mac, most people intend to use these frameworks for iOS apps so benchmarking on an iPhone may have been useful to see. Not to mention if this is intended to run on an iOS app, the differences in son parsing speed for any of these is negligible. Even for a server in many cases this wouldn't matter. . 
Can you share your full project on Google Drive or somewhere else? That way I can look into the problem 
Not enough information in this post to help you. Not understanding something happens all the time in this field, the struggle is getting efficient at figuring it out. Asking a vague question on reddit is not an efficient way to figure it out. 
Either use a singleton or pass the single value to both viewControllers. People will be arguing over this until the end of time and it really doesn't matter very much in most apps, especially simple ones. Might as well start an argument over tabs vs spaces or vi vs emacs. 
You might wanna try Udemy’s Swift development course with [Bob the developer](https://www.bobthedeveloper.io) . 
Done. Thank you. 
Toolbar was not added to the view hierarchy. and your View Controller didn’t had any Parent View. So I added a UIView to ViewController and then re added everything you added. and it’s working now. https://imgur.com/a/2yr3qOQ
^(Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image) **https://i.imgur.com/1rxQIVU.png** ^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&amp;subject=ignoreme&amp;message=ignoreme) 
I just started learning Swift as well. The beginning was very slow because I just did the playground exercises on my iPad. Now I am working daily on the everyone can code lectures / book that you can find in Apple books. It has a really nice pace and after rereading something again I understand it (biologist and no coding background). After this I will start on a udemy course called iOS 11 boot camp, this is mainly to do some guided projects from easy to hard to feel more for how you should tackle projects. After that it’s on your own, think of a project you want to build and just start doing it. There is a lot of swift documentation that you can access, and like fellow redditers say here, ask specific questions on reddit or git hub. Hoped this helped! 
Well you've widened the scope of this considerably. Are we discussing the benefits of RxSwift / reactive architecture in general, the benefits of uni directional data flow or the value of composing Observables into a single stream that is subscribed to once by the View? This post was intended for people that are at least interested in Reactive design patterns. But if were arguing the former, consider the following flow; a button is clicked, data is fetched from an api, data is saved to a data store, a subset of the data is displayed to the user. In mvi these 4 callbacks are a single event stream. The button click and everything in between is a single observable that is emitted to the View as a state. Given the extent of your experience, it would have been more helpful for you to review, understand and critique the code.. Rather than derail this post with nontechnical dogma. 
keep going
With Apple devices especially, you will want to be able to target iOS 12. It would also be nice if you could get another year or two out of it if it's in the budget.
There will always be a place for native development, hybrid options such as react native can only do so much. They are great for quick, simple apps but anything beyond that and you really need the native performance and capabilities.
You are talking about mobile app development. Swift does a great job on server side too. And that field is evolving rapidly.
Any non-trivial mobile app will involve the use of native instruments. Swift is really nice, modern language with many features, also it is young language and still under development. With Swift 5 ABI will be stabilized, which will increase efficiency of apps developed using Swift. Also, I've never understood developers who voluntarily chose shitty javascript instead of Swift, Kotlin and even Java. Please note, that Swift is also capable of serverside development, and also there is a very interesting project "Swift for TensorFlow".
Cool, I like swift ......
This is not an attack on Swift. I’m really keen to learn it. In fact I will. I just wanted to understand where people see it going in the future. 
You should have 1 coordinator that manages the data and provides callbacks or delegation to controllers when data is updated.
If anything, I'd say native development is getting stronger. Web apps are all well and fine but there are so many issues with them (speed, latency, native controls, bugs, compatibility, and so on) that people tend to far prefer a native app. It seems that, given the choice, people are increasingly dumping web apps in preference to native ones.
Here @IBAction func bu\_nextTapped(\_ sender: Any) { if let message = msgTxtField.text{ if imageAdded &amp;&amp; message != "" { // var strURL = "" // Upload image to firebase let storageReference = [Storage.storage](https://Storage.storage)().reference(forURL : "gs://snapchatclone-20dca.appspot.com") var data = NSData() data = (UIImageJPEGRepresentation(imgView.image!, 0.1) as NSData?)! // let imageName = "\\(NSUUID().uuidString).jpg" self.imagePath = "UserPosts/\\(imageName)" let metadata = StorageMetadata() metadata.contentType = "image/jpeg" let childUserImages = storageReference.child(self.imagePath!) childUserImages.putData(data as Data, metadata: metadata, completion: { metadata, error in // Generate download URL childUserImages.downloadURL(completion: {url, error in if let error = error { self.presentAlert(alert: error.localizedDescription) } else { if let downloadURL = url?.absoluteString{ // strURL = downloadURL self.performSegue(withIdentifier: "receiverSegue", sender: downloadURL) } } }) }) } } }
Yay an actual answer. Thanks. 
Haha maybe it’s a way to fish you out for lying as Swift isn’t 10 years old?
Just gave this a try and it worked! Thank you. I created an instance of the data store that holds what the user has pinned. In my UITabController, I passed the instance to both classes. I'm assuming you are recommending I do something like this, right? Basically something like class AStore { var arrayOfStuff = [Stuff]() } class TabController: UITabController { let store = AStore() let vcA = UIViewController() let vcB = UIViewController() vcA.store = store vcB.store = store ....... }
Got it, so it would be what I posted in response to remember\_is\_ninja, but adding the delegate piece, correct? Thanks for the response! 
&gt;Either use a singleton or pass the single value to both viewControllers. People will be arguing over this until the end of time and it really doesn't matter very much in most apps, especially simple ones. Might as well start an argument over tabs vs spaces or vi vs emacs. Thanks! I ended up passing the value to both VCs. And tabs....because I'm not a psycho 
This is super helpful, thanks for this!! I can’t wait to finish the course I’m taking on swift so I can better understand some of this 
I tried to get groups together but it really never works out. Everyone learns at their own pace. I'm doing the DevSlopes tutorial now, it's about my 5th from Udemy. They go on sale for about $10\~$20 all the time so I stocked up last year on a bunch. They cover different things, but most any should get the job done. We can offer specific help, but you'll need to have a detailed question. I asked a few (some people down vote this activity) but usually if you post the code and the part you don't understand, someone will chime in. Example, I posted this: [https://www.reddit.com/r/swift/comments/8wbisu/is\_this\_udemy\_tutorial\_wrong/](https://www.reddit.com/r/swift/comments/8wbisu/is_this_udemy_tutorial_wrong/) Clearly one guy got really upset because the question was about a tutorial and he things that shouldn't be allowed, but it did get a proper answer. The tutorial was wrong, the issue was made clear and someone posted a use case for the function. Aside from the "hall monitors" there's people here that do answer specific Swift and iOS questions.
Describe what you mean by "difficulty spike". It's easy to think there comes a point where you can think of an app and bang it out all in one sitting. *That never happens.* Here's a more realistic description: Every programmer only knows how to do what they've already solved. That's why experts seem to make it easy. If we can imagine a "simple" iOS app as requiring you to solve 30 different problems, a person who has already solved about 26 of those is going to make it look easier than a person who's only solved 5. "A problem" can be as simple as "how to make an outlet in Interface Builder" or as hard as "how to allow the user to take a picture". Hard problems tend to involve coordinating the solutions to lots of easy problems. For example, that picture problem involves solving: * What ViewController can I use to put the camera on the screen? * How do I instantiate that? * How do I present it? * How do I get the picture the user took, or detect when they canceled? This is kind of like how "showing your work" in math works. Long division always works. But many can do division like "240 / 6" without showing all the in-between steps. It's a lot faster to skip those steps, but it will confuse people who can't do the math in their head. When you're following lessons/tutorials, you're watching someone teach you one way to solve a relatively complicated problem. They have to show you solutions to all the smaller problems that make up that bigger one. Sometimes experts forget some of the little problems along the way. So they take a shortcut and don't show their work. It's possible they've been an expert on that topic for so long they *forgot* they're taking a shortcut. Also, many lessons assume you've memorized previous lessons before continuing. Programming tends to assume this. The more little solutions you memorize, the more complex problems you can solve without getting too stumped. Maybe a previous lesson explained the place you're stuck. Or, maybe it's just a bad teacher. Explain what happens, and why you don't understand it. I'm just starting, too. I need to see more problems and solutions.
I started in 2009, there was all kinds of talk back then. HTML5 was THE answer... and many others. I went Objective-C, then Swift. Looked into MS C# but that didn't last long. If you look at a few things: 1. the job market, not just what they are asking for, but what they are finding. 2. the amount of code already written. You find ObjC still in use by many larger companies. 3. the quality of the apps produced. I think it was AirBnB that just did a 5 part series on React Native. Now we have Flutter... These are just too little, too late. Swift/ObjC already has the support, TONS of code already done and proven to work. Now look at the popular languages... Once you get past the top 5, they drop off like a rock.
I’ve just started taking the udemy course. Can you link me to the book? 
yeah or just like emptyClosure callbacks or something. both is fine.
Yup. Airbnb and udacity recently dropped ready native. Honestly I think people end up moving to native anyways. 
I think it's really hard to predict exactly where the heck the industry will go. Cross-platform web-based stuff like Cordova or Electron is popular because for a lot of jobs, you have to target EVERYTHING: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android. No one wants to maintain four different products. We got here because of a lot of things. 15 years ago, the problem was easy: for the vast majority of people only Windows mattered. Businesses had Windows machines, and assumed they'd use Windows forever. 10 years ago, it was only a little more complicated. The web was still glorified Form input, and you still mostly targeted Windows. iOS/Android were there and growing fast, but most people considered that a market for apps more like Yelp than the enterprisey stuff that makes up the majority of gigs. 5 years ago shit had hit the fan. Suddenly Macs were as relevant as Windows. iOS/Android were getting as useful as laptops. Web frameworks were starting to do more impressive things. MS was introducing and murdering frameworks annually. This is when "We'll use Windows forever" started to crumble. So here we are. Will we use laptops in 5 years? Will they be Windows or MacOS? If we don't, will we be using tablets, or just AR headsets? Will they be iOS, Android, or something we haven't seen yet? It's very hard to tell. There are compelling arguments for and against each major platform, and large-scale projects betting on any or all of them. The one truth is that web apps work on all platforms consistently. So while we're in this weirdo transitional phase and no one knows what the heck is going to "win", they are a very safe approach. So you really just have to pick, and remain flexible. Don't lose your web chops. It's always going to be safe. Native dev is always going to be "best" in terms of user experience, but platforms can topple and leave you with irrelevant skills. THAT SAID, it's not as severe as it used to be. Had Windows collapsed in the mid-90s, all that WinAPI experience would've meant zilch when moving to a platform like Linux. But now there's a lot of sameness in dev. iOS and Android may have different APIs, but it's all similar concepts and they tend to converge on ideas and features. Android in particular "looks like" the recent MS frameworks from WPF to UWP thanks to C# and Java having very similar philosophies. In particular, WPF/UWP's use of XAML makes it "feel like" writing Node apps with HTML/JS. So. Find a gig you like with a company you like and latch on. Keep reading blogs about the stuff you're not doing, though. Do little side projects, when you can, in tech you aren't using. That way, if the floor disappears, there will be other places you can land. 
I'm learning how to pass information in between VCs an then I'm going to teach myself core data. There is a lot to learn in this language! 
StackOverflow is also an amazing resource just to look for the problem you're having and see what kinds of solutions are on there... I'm extremely new and sometimes I spend more time on that website that I do trying to code new things. I think the thing is to experiment with what you're trying to learn. The more you do something the better you will get at understanding the concepts. I've started and quit learning iOS development probably three times - I've told myself that I'm not allowed to quit this time. It's been frustrating at times, but when you get that thing to work that you haven't been able to in the past it feels great. So just keep chugging along - find different resources, and just ask questions. People are much more willing to help than one would assume. best of luck dude.
DIdn't know about Udacity, love to hear this because I don't want these to destroy the job market for true native dev.
What is the actual JSON structure that you are attempting to decode? This seems overly complicated for the task.
That’s not true; some of us worked on Swift when it was not yet publicly announced. ;)
Fair enough. But then that question would be meant for a very specific pool of people.
Do you have anything done at all? Even a failed attempt at a UI? Honestly, if you can't put together even a very simple UI that approximates what you're doing here then you probably should work on a much simpler app. Something that doesn't need much of a UI at all. Not that you need to get it all right in the first try but you may be grasping much beyond your level of knowledge with the app. Think smaller and grow your knowledge gradually.
There is a bug where autorun causes issues while editing. Turn it to manual, save, quit Xcode and re-open the playground. Then only run the playground when your code is at a stable point.
It's a centralized structure for all api calls throughout the entire app with lots of different models and responses. Instead of using Alamofire I made my own layer using generics.
Right but if you're making the calls then you should probably have predictable responses, right? So the result of an API call would give you back a data type that you already know and can decode without needing a complicated system such as this. If you use concrete types instead of `[String:Any]` you can use `Codable` and make life a lot easier on yourself.
It all comes down to how I want to send requests, then this complicated structure (similar to Alamofire) is necessary. I know how to solve this issue but it requires alot of copy paste with just different return types. So I only need some help of understanding why my last code but doesn't go to the correct init.
I'd like to help you more with this but your code is too abbreviated to get a good look at it. If you could put up a working example, something that could be pasted into a simple project or playground, I'll see what's going on with the dispatch. I've put together a rudimentary version of it myself but with so much missing I can't be certain I have anything like what you're working with.
Part of the problem I'm having is your `protocol` `Response` does not have an `init` method so `R.init(json: json)` is invalid.
Yep, that’s pretty much it. Then your tableview can reload in viewWillAppear and any changes will be reflected when you switch between tabs.
What does this have to do with Swift? What even is Endtest?
Yes, but you need a (computed) property “meters” as well. Also, I’d reverse feed and meters, so you store the real value in meters. 
\&gt;they rarely work like they're supposed to no matter what version of Xcode I'm running. Have you tried the Xcode 10 beta? Playgrounds are so much more reliable for me in Xcode 10 than they ever were in any other Xcode version.
&gt;I'd be curious to see Codable performance where the CodingKeys are defined. Wouldn't that only affect compile time though?
I've found App Development with Swift to be wonderful at providing useful examples to recreate and understand the thinking behind real-world apps. I've been making sure that I don't move on in the ebook without physically writing and understanding what I've just learned and what each line does in a notebook. If you plow through it, you won't retain anything. But, if you modify the code, take notes, reread your notes before completing a lab, and make an honest effort at finding answers to your own questions, I think you'll have a greater chance at succeding. It's complicated, but not impossible. See [Slypenslyde](https://www.reddit.com/user/Slypenslyde)'s answer too!
This approach has saved my sanity, they are essentially unusable otherwise
Speed is always important, no matter the context. You're right that there are more efficient ways to transfer data, but that doesn't mean we can't also have fast JSON parsing. I disagree that Codable is easy to use. It \_looks\_ easy to use, but is a huge PITA for anything that goes off the happy path. I've had to write so much boilerplate code when dealing with real-world APIs. They really messed up IMO by going the CodingKey/initializer route instead of a custom @json annotation.
If SpriteKit works like UIKit: view.isUserInteractionEnabled = false
That works, thanks!
That’s inside the viewcontroller, it’s part of the view life cycle which you need to override if you want to load something onto the view for example for the first time. I highly recommend taking a look at some beginner tutorials to build an iOS app from scratch. 
Is that how you’d recommend someone learn swift, and iOS programming for the first time though?
Download XCode and try things out in Playgrounds.
As far as I understand there is storage functionality built into the framework. I'd guess you'd want to look into CoreData, Realm or something similar.
What course you doing bro?
To be honest, the best way of learning is just doing it and figuring out either by tutorials or trying out stuff. I learned programming myself by: I want to build a game so I googled everything regarding game dev and learned myself C++. As for Mobile development goes, I started off as a Junior based on my gamedev skills, I got experience by trying out stuff and building different projects either at the job or in my spare time. I slowly improved in time. I’m currently a senior lead developer. I always recommend either go for tutorials (blogs, video, courses, books), documentation or trying out stuff. Because making mistakes is the best way of learning something when developing. 
Avoid using stuff that doesn't have code completion and build time validation. If you really must do it then use Codable: https://www.raywenderlich.com/172145/encoding-decoding-and-serialization-in-swift-4
A JSON file or just a JSON string? Why not simply use a real structure? struct President { let name: String } let presidents = [ President(name: "Donald Trump"), President(name: "Barack Obama")]
Here's my attempt: struct Distance { // It should have a meters property and a feet property. var feet: Double var meters: Double { get { return feet / 3.28084 } set { self.feet = newValue * 3.28084 } } //Create a custom initializer corresponding to each property that will take in a distance in one unit of measurement and assign the correct value to both units of measurements. Hint: 1 meter = 3.28084 feet. init(withFeet feet:Double) { self.feet = feet } init(withMeters meters:Double) { self.feet = meters * 3.28084 } }
 struct President: Codable { let name: String } let file = """ [ { "name" : "Donald Trump" }, { "name" : "Barack Obama" } ] """ if let data = file.data(using: .utf8) { let presidents = try? JSONDecoder().decode([President].self, from: data)
Here's a sample project you can start from: https://github.com/UberNick/CodableTester It used Codable and does Json&lt;-&gt;Swift Object serialization in both directions.
Something like this seems to work. ``` import Foundation var json = """ \[{"name": "Donald Trump"}, {"name":"Barack Obama"}\] """.data(using: .utf8)! struct President: Codable { var name: String } var decoder = JSONDecoder() let presidents:[President] = try decoder.decode(\[President\].self, from: json) } ```
The source is linked to the article..You can try it yourself!
Do you have any idea whether the previous method of "using a combination of HKObserverQuery and other HKQuery subclasses such as HKSampleQuery to query HKSample data" will still be available or must we rewrite our existing apps to use the new HKWorkoutBuilder API? 
The app that gets created when you make a new project with the single-view template has a view controller, which has that function as part of its lifecycle. 
First commit was 8 years ago ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯ https://github.com/apple/swift/commit/5e88a2175579b0b2ed3c4a15fe8c2382601ac321
So Socket.io is just very fast communication to everyone that has it, but each person (device) would have to store their own somewhere.
Yea definitely something i'm considering. thank you!
Right, it's just a framework for a socket connection protocol. Something that allows you to send and receive data. Each device would have to store it's own data, or you could create some loading process where any relevant data only gets saved on a server and can be sent on demand to the client. 
The github repo was produced from a heavily edited internal repo. History was changed. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ 
Thanks. Going to implement the changes you made and let you know. 
Yes I believe queries will still be available. I think at some point you could add the new api and just preprocessor directive to target one method or the other.
Please don't post images of code. It's so much easier to read and test actual text.
Check out Swift Algorithm Club, they implement a ton of these problems in swift with phenomenal explanations 
I have been going through the same thing! I figured it out on my own by I am glad that it is not my OS.
Got it, added actual text
Thanks, that helps.
Thank you!!! I didn't know you could even turn off auto-run.
Just did. Seems like a place where I'll spend a next couple of weeks:)
Change func on line 21 to private func add(root: node&lt;T&gt;?, value: T) -&gt; node&lt;T&gt; Then change root.right = add(root: root.right, value: value) and root.left = add(root: root.left, value: value) Haven’t tested since I’m on mobile 
Okay, so I tried implementing the changes (changed the interface a little but it was easier) but I'm running into this error now: 'NSUnkownKeyException' I've attached the google link of the updated version in the OP. 
I used Swift regularly from it's announcement in 2014 until about this time last year. Playgrounds have always sucked. Solid idea but a big failure In my eyes.
The error is because you have a node&lt;&gt; as argument to add, not node&lt;&gt;?. node&lt;&gt; can never be null. Swift compiler is warning you that this if statement will never happen. Good thing, too, since you dereference root inside that if which would explode (if only the swift compiler let you do that, which it won’t). You have to decide if the argument root to add() can ever be null or not. 
When is the error appearing? On pressing any specific button?
&gt;I started work on the Swift Programming Language in July of 2010. http://nondot.org/sabre/ ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯
Just quickly, here's how I would do the class definitions: class BSTNode&lt;Element: Comparable&gt; { let value: Element var right: BSTNode? var left : BSTNode? init(value: Element) { self.value = value } } class BST&lt;Element: Comparable&gt; { typealias Node = BSTNode&lt;Element&gt; var root: Node? } I like the type alias because it makes the code much easier to read.
It can be since left and right are optional and will be nil to start out with and are used as parameters which he is currently force unwrapping but shouldn’t be 
Just learned what typealias means. There is plenty to learn... Thanks. Going to try to implement the insert with this.
As I understand, ? and ! are used to avoid nullPointerExcpetions. I haven't wrapped my head around it, but I will try. I am trying to implement the insert where you keep passing the root until you reach a nil. Once you reach a nil, you assign a new node on that place.
Ah, yes, I meant it can't be nil from the perspective of inside add(). Like you say, the force unwrap will go explody before he gets to the next recursive call to add().
Upon starting. The camera doesn't load properly. I get a white screen and the error message pops on the x-code console. 
Yep, just hold down on the play/pause button in the bottom left corner and a menu will pop up.
Optionals are there to prevent NPEs in the first place. They exist in Java now, too, if that's what you're used to, and should be used pretty much everywhere you need a null-able type IMO. Basically what you're saying here is hey, this thing here could be an X, or it could be a nil. Then, whenever anyone tries to touch this thing, the compiler makes you explain what you're going to do if this happens to be nil or else it doesn't compile. Compare to old-Java. Every non-primitive variable is potentially nullable and anyone can just set it to null. The person using the value had to know, by documentation, or by reading the code that this thing here could turn out to be null, so they'd know to write some if (variable == null) bits. But, nobody ever remembers to do that, so programs explode at runtime when unexpected nulls are encountered. One of the big benefits of Optional is that you can know at compile time that you've forgotten a check, rather than waiting until running in production. And also, you don't need to write checks that will never fail, since if something isn't Optional, then you know for absolute certain, it can't be nil. You can kind of see a parallel here with Exceptions. Exceptions mean "hey, this bad thing can happen and somebody better do something about it". In languages without exceptions (say, C), functions have special return values and you have to know that, for example, writing an array to a network socket usually returns the number of bytes written, but could also return -1 to indicate something went wrong. Since people often don't care about how many bytes they wrote, it's very easy not to check to see if the return value was -1. If write() instead throws an IOException, then the compiler forces you to explain what to do if that happens.
This is amazing, thank you!
I like to explain optionals with a scenario where they would be useful. You make a mobile app that can get the users location to get more accurate information about what restaurants are nearby. Sometimes GPS signal is bad and the location may never be obtained. So the location may or may not exist and if it does exist we want to use it to provide more accurate information. So it makes sense for the users location to be an optional var userLocation: CLLocation? then when the user performs a search we can check if the location exists and use it if so by conditional unwrapping it if let validLocation = userLocation{ performSearchWithLocation(validLocation) } else { performGenericSearch() } Maybe this helps. Maybe it doesn’t 
I fixed the error. It had to do with a button outlet connection and the difference of names/labels used. 
You need to do this: https://www.reddit.com/r/swift/comments/8y5nu1/implementing_bst_with_swift/e28ecd9/ and also change this line: return node(value: root.value) to return node(value: value) /u/jmb2k6 's changes fix it so now you take an Optional in add() (meaning it can be nil now). My change just fixes a logical error. root can't have a value if it is nil.
So we use let to unwrap stuff. As I understand the unwapping will return true if it went successfully. I haven't gotten to that point in the book cause I'm coming from a different language. Seems very useful! Thanks man! 
Thank you so much, it makes sense to me. I feel like this thing should be explained right away:) 
I appreciate this video - thanks for the share. 
If it’s successful the unwrapped value will be assigned So var optionalValue: Int? optionalValue = 5 if let unwrappedValue = optionalValue{ print(“Unwrapped Value : /(unwrappedValue)”) } else { print(“optionalValue is nil”) } Result: Unwrapped Value : 5
I enjoy this channel a lot. 
I’ve sent them messages multiple times - is this channel defunct? Have not been able to contact anyone on it. I can only subscribe to an email list. Am I missing something?
yobaetoti, note that this is just the idiom in swift for how to deal with Optional values. if let myVariable = functionThatReturnsOptionalValue() { someOtherFunction(myVariable); // use myVariable, which can't be nil } else { // oh no, what do we do if it's nil? } You can also write: guard let myVariable = functionThatReturnsOptionalValue() else { // oh no!! } someOtherFunction(myVariable); In Java, you'd probably write something like this: MyClass myVariable = functionThatReturnsAPossiblyValue(); if (myVariable != null) { someOtherFunction(myVariable); } else { // oh no!! } 
Much better than my explanation. This guys Swifts
Thanks so much, also enjoyed your blog post. 👍 I started a HealthKit Developer Slack Channel, if you or anyone in this sub is interested please join us [https://join.slack.com/t/healthkitdevelopers/shared\_invite/enQtMzEyOTg1NTk2MDY2LTA4YTUxMDQzOWIxYjEwMjhhZDJhY2EzMjJkMzg3OThhY2MzOWNkNDNlNjY5YWFhNDAyNmFiMGQ2YmM0NzQxYTA](https://join.slack.com/t/healthkitdevelopers/shared_invite/enQtMzEyOTg1NTk2MDY2LTA4YTUxMDQzOWIxYjEwMjhhZDJhY2EzMjJkMzg3OThhY2MzOWNkNDNlNjY5YWFhNDAyNmFiMGQ2YmM0NzQxYTA)
Glad you fixed all the errors and problems.
Daym son, look at that. Yeah, I guess this essential and super important stuff slipped past my eyes. Thank you so much!
 Didn't know that. Thanks!
That's not proper or not, it's just a little trick.
Although not widely accepted Apple documentation recommends building out our cell content and style in https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uitableviewdelegate/1614883-tableview
Everything you read on the Internet is 100&amp;#37; true. In particular when it has to do with Apple Internal projects. ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯ 
Xcode is developed by pure morons
https://www.apple.com/everyone-can-code/ there you can find the links to the books.
Danke 
I've just opened your project and will try to help. Your constraints are not correct : imagePreview they are duplicated imagePreview conflicting "&lt;NSLayoutConstraint:0x1d4282d00 UIImageView:0x103006f50.top == UILayoutGuide:0x1d41b2600'UIViewSafeAreaLayoutGuide'.top (active)&gt;", "&lt;NSLayoutConstraint:0x1d4282cb0 UIImageView:0x103006f50.top == UILayoutGuide:0x1d41b2600'UIViewSafeAreaLayoutGuide'.top + 3 (active)&gt;" Your UIButtons are pointing to multiple actions?? Your Black View containing the buttons has no AutoLayout constraints at all. I think you need to go back a step and understand the concept of AutoLayout a bit,.
Xcode 9 has a lot of issues with playgrounds. I’ve had better luck using the Xcode 10 betas. 
Use a built in class to perform the conversion. Also make ‘meters’ the saved property and ‘feet’ a computed one. Anything in the metric system preferably should be the truth. Then have a designated initializer that takes meters and a convenience initializer that takes feet and calls the other one after converting the units. Keep the base solid and later add computed properties and convenience initializers that rely on the base functionality, optionally in extensions so they’re separate. 
Watch the Stanford videos on iTunesU. 
Not sure what you’re asking - for someone to write the code for you?
worth to check the PointFree guys, they use it like hell: https://www.pointfree.co 
&gt; https://github.com/UberNick/CodableTester &gt; 
It's just for training
Pro tip for trying out bits of code is to simply create a new Mac Command line application. New Project &gt; macOS &gt; Command Line Tool Cmd + R to run. No need to fumble with Playgrounds and its quirks.
I try to print presidents to the console, but I get this error: dataCorrupted(Swift.DecodingError.Context(codingPath: [], debugDescription: "The given data was not valid JSON.", underlyingError: Optional(Error Domain=NSCocoaErrorDomain Code=3840 "Badly formed array around character 33." UserInfo={NSDebugDescription=Badly formed array around character 33.}))) 
Hello, you may find this list of open source swift projects very useful: https://github.com/dkhamsing/open-source-ios-apps/blob/master/README.md
[Permanent](https://help.github.com/articles/getting-permanent-links-to-files/#press-y-to-permalink-to-a-file-in-a-specific-commit) GitHub links: * [dkhamsing/open-source-ios-apps/.../**README.md** (master → 36b0ac1)](https://github.com/dkhamsing/open-source-ios-apps/blob/36b0ac126940c72e7afb1469856f59112bf09425/README.md) ---- 
At my old company they used plain UITableViewCells with tags set in storyboard to customize the fields. Fun times.
In your post, you’re missing a comma between the two president objects
Thanks, Ill make a working example and send it to you when I have time. Ill also explain more why I have this structure. Ill PM you when Im done.
Because that code is not Unicode correct, in neither Python, not Kotlin, and you didn't even notice because it looks to simple/innocent to be wrong.
This is a pretty basic feature built into MapKit. Look for "Overlays" in the documentation. You'll probably want to overlay a [MKPolygon](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/mapkit/mkpolygon).
Unicode correctness is a good point. However, this doesn't really change how bloated this looks. I gave the code above a spin in Python and it seems to handle unicode by default. ``` Python 3.7.0 (default, Jun 29 2018, 20:13:13) [Clang 9.1.0 (clang-902.0.39.2)] on darwin Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information. &gt;&gt;&gt; string = "test😇૱官话" &gt;&gt;&gt; string[0:5] 'test😇' &gt;&gt;&gt; string[0:6] 'test😇૱' ```
I looked at that but couldn’t figure out how to fill in a color... am I missing something obvious?
Use a (MKPolygonRenderer)[https://developer.apple.com/documentation/mapkit/mkpolygonrenderer]. It has a `fillColor` property (inherited from its superclass).
Awesome thanks so much
 fingerprint.dropLast(fingerprint.count - 8) Yes, it's kind of a hack and a bit unsafe (watch those negative values!) but it's short and sweet.
I know this is callous: but just write some string extensions to simplify it for yourself. This isn't really a problem with Swift, this is the iOS base classes, so the ObjectiveC looks almost exactly the same.
 let test = "1234567890" extension String { subscript(_ from: Int, _ to: Int) -&gt; Substring { guard let start = self.index(self.startIndex, offsetBy: from, limitedBy: self.endIndex), let end = self.index(self.startIndex, offsetBy: to, limitedBy: self.endIndex) else { fatalError("String index of bounds") } return self[start..&lt;end] } } print(test[1,8]) // "2345678" 
`fingerPrint.prefix(8)`
Have you tried Googling? "ios push notification tutorial" gave me this and other articles for a good starting point: [https://medium.com/flawless-app-stories/ios-remote-push-notifications-in-a-nutshell-d05f5ccac252](https://medium.com/flawless-app-stories/ios-remote-push-notifications-in-a-nutshell-d05f5ccac252)
https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1 TL;DR (at a basic level) - You make a network request to their API with a [JSON payload](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/CreatingtheNotificationPayload.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH10-SW1) matching their schema to send the content and target user(s), Apple then (attempts to) deliver the Push
I found plenty of articles on how to use push notifications, but I'm not sure how to send them out based on periodic changes of a website that I don't manage. I read that people were using server-side hosting, and I didn't know how to go about it to achieve what I'm trying to do. 
Why not start and you'll know and can share with us later? That said, Swift is a great beginner language because its syntax is mostly concise (unlike e.g. Java) and it's strict enough to catch many beginner errors early on (unlike e.g. JavaScript or Python).
What kind of answer would be helpful here? Hard compared to what? Hard for me might not be hard for you.
It takes a lot of time. Kind of same boat, been studying for about half a year at this point. You’ll have to be very diligent about just creating new things that you’re going to throw away just for the sake of practice 
Should I use a background fetch to retrieve the website data and compare to previous website data? Then make a push notification when/if the current data is newer than the previous data?
It actually looks like two somewhat unrelated questions: 1. How to set up code that runs periodically and checks a third-party website for changes 2. How to send push notifications once you know a change has occurred
I guess that's really what I'm aiming for. I'll keep digging around. Thanks for the insight! 
Sure. One thing, you'd probably be deploying the code to do (1 and 2) on a server so that it can run continuously and not on your computer. If so, it doesn't have to be Swift (While a great language, Swift is most commonly used to write user-visible client-side applications, not backend stuff). If I was personally writing something like this, I'd look at Golang or Elixir or another popular backend language. 
Swift is a decently simple language to learn, although there are a few tricky concepts that seem to trip people up. The main one is the `Optional`. Suppose you want to measure a person's height, you'd do that and store it as a number. Let's say we're dealing with whole numbers so we use an `Int`, a type that represents whole numbers. So if the person shows up that day we measure their height in whatever unit, say inches. We get 72 inches and store that in an `Int`: var height: Int = 72 OK, so we used the word `var` to create storage named `height` which holds an `Int` and set that storage equal to 72. But what if the person didn't show up that day? We need a number for their height. If we use any number then how will we know if it's a valid height or not? What we do is make an `Optional` to hold the value, like putting it in a box. The box may be empty or it may hold the value. It looks like this: var height: Int? The question mark changes the `Int` to an `Optional` `Int`. Now, if the value is not valid then it will be equal to `nil`. That stands for nothing or invalid. We can check to see if it's equal to `nil` like this: if height == nil { print("No height measured") } The `==` is the equality operator and it means "is equal to". If the statement between the `if` and the first curly bracket is true then everything between the two curly brackets happens. If we want the actual value stored in `height` we have to "unwrap" it. That means we check to see if there's a value and then we take it out of the `Optional` "box". Here is an example of a method called "optional binding", it tests and unwraps the `Optional` in one step: if let unwrappedHeight = height { print("The height is:", unwrappedHeight) } If `height` is an `Optional` with a valid value then it's unwrapped and `unwrappedHeight` gets set to that value, then everything in the curly brackets happens. If `height` is not set to a valid value then everything in the curly brackets is skipped.
I edit my comment, but yes, Python 3 does do this correctly. But they hid the fact that string slicing is linear time.
No no no, don't do this! It's intentionally ommited from the standard library, you're hiding a O(n) operation behind a subscript. And you ranges, not two separate int args.
Just do it. Literally just make a project. Don't worry about how shitty you think the code is, just make something. You're always going to be overwhelmed with new things that should be learned or tried, so just learn them while making something.
First of all, Cocoa is for Mac, and Cocoa Touch is for iOS. Perhaps it would be most intuitive to think of them as brands signifying one or more frameworks. For example, Cocoa Touch includes UIKit and Foundation frameworks. Helpful page: [https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Conceptual/DevPedia-CocoaCore/Cocoa.html](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Conceptual/DevPedia-CocoaCore/Cocoa.html)
&gt;String(fingerprint\[fingerprint.startIndex ..&lt; fingerprint.index(fingerprint.startIndex, offsetBy: 8)\]) Try using more complicated unicode, where a single "character" may be multiple unicode code points. //Python string = "test👨‍👩‍👧👨‍👨‍👧‍👦👘" print(string) print(string[0:5]) outputs: test👨‍👩‍👧👨‍👨‍👧‍👦👘 test👨 //swift let string = "test👨‍👩‍👧👨‍👨‍👧‍👦👘" print(string) print(String(string[string.startIndex ..&lt; string.index(string.startIndex, offsetBy: 5)])) outputs test👨‍👩‍👧👨‍👨‍👧‍👦👘 test👨‍👩‍👧
I should have put a disclaimer up on the comment because you're absolutely correct. Subscript operations on array-like objects are usually assumed to be O(1) so we have to be explicit about the fact that it's not. And, yes, ranges are a good thing and are the preferred way to write this. I did this to mostly match the Python code given in the post and show how you could match it with an extension. In keeping the code simple I avoided the complexities you mention here but I wouldn't write shipping code just like this.
Thanks for responding. The article certainly helps, as does your definition. One question though, on MacOS we can import Cocoa which I would guess is the same as importing Foundation and AppKit. On iOS projects we can't import Cocoa Touch, so when I load up a iOS project (a single view application project for example), where does Cocoa Touch come in to play? Is it providing me with the list of Frameworks I can import?
&gt;where does Cocoa Touch come in to play? Is it providing me with the list of Frameworks I can import into my files? Put another way, "Cocoa Touch" is just a phrase that means "collection of frameworks for iOS, including UIKit", not a specific piece of code.
Ok, I get it! :) What confused me was on the wikipedia page things like Storyboards, Auto Layout are listed as features of Cocoa Touch. How do those fit in to the "Cocoa Touch is a collection of Frameworks" definition? Or is the wikipage just inaccurate?
You're interpreting too literally :) It's a bit like saying "New York" and that can mean "New York City" or "New York State" or "Manhattan" depending on context.
Ahaha, ok then man. Sometimes I get hung up on something like this, especially if there is the slightest hint of abstraction! Thanks for all the help.
Sure thing!!
The thing is that he needs to learn how to structure the code. If you try do learn that by try and error it takes ages. Structure is really something that can be learned much quicker with help.
I like this! Who knew unicode was THAT hard? ;) From what I tested the slick solution with `prefix()` does also handle this correctly.
I think this is what I was searching for.
New Playgrounds in Xcode 10 are much better.
You can check out a couple of mine I have hosted, namely https://github.com/JRR-OSU/SwiftFileShare. The code for this project got a bit messy because I ended up having to serialize my files to get this to support iOS 11. Otherwise it should give you an idea! 
It takes time to actually become a programmer. It’s a professional skill so it’s natural. If you really like it just focus on it and you will learn, don’t think about how hard or the time it will take. Invest on online courses on your free time as a starter, once you get the basics you decide what’s best to keep on improving. 
I see what you're saying, but personally when I used to try to learn code structure I would go into a rabbit hole of sorts. I would see paradigms I'd never encountered before and what would be a quick "I'll just look at this project real quick and make something after" turned into weeks of researching random shit. Then at some point I'd think "this isn't what I was originally wanting to do" and start over. I just don't want that to happen to them.
Cheers! \`prefix\` doesn't seem to be very well-known – I wonder how this method could be made more discoverable.
The crash is happening because the imagePassingDelegate is never getting set. var imagePassingDelegate : imagePassing! That's an implicitly unwrapped variable (which is nil) so it's crashing as soon as you access it. First of all, the delegate pattern is not a good fit for what you're trying to accomplish here. ViewController is instantiating the ImageViewController in 'didSelectItemAt' so you don't really need the protocol at all. ViewController could simply pass the image to ImageViewController before it presents it. Second, you have some fundamental issues with your architecture. 1) In general, delegates should be weakly coupled. That means they should be reference types and weakly retained. Also, as a style issue, protocol names should be capitalized like class names. protocol ImagePassing: class { func tappedImage(image: UIImage) } class ViewController: UIViewController { weak var imagePassingDelegate: ImagePassing? } 2) The connections are never being set between your objects. let vc = ViewController() Declaring your property like that on ImageViewController instantiates a whole new ViewController that is not the same as the ViewController instance presenting the ImageViewController. So when ImageViewController calls vc.imagePassingDelegate = self That results in setting the delegate on that new object. Which isn't even on screen and is not handling the tap. 3) However, even if ImageViewController had a valid reference to ViewController, it wouldn't be set until after you tried to call 'tappedImage' in 'didSelectItemAt' because 'viewDidLoad()' is not guaranteed to have been called yet.
Static UITableViews only work from storyboards. They can only be defined in a storyboard **and must be instantiated from that storyboard**. let settingsChildTVC = SettingsChildTVC() That will not work since you're trying to instantiate the VC in code. You need to load the child VC by calling [instantiateViewController(withIdentifier:)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uistoryboard/1616214-instantiateviewcontroller)
Thanks for the reply. 1) UIButtons - I just checked and I think you are talking about FLIP button. I thought I deleted it but I did now. 2) imagePreview they are duplicated imagePreview conflicting. What do you mean by this? I have two imagePreivews? I have too many constraints? 3) As for the black View, I tried adding constraints (bottom, left, right) to 0 but it didn't make a difference. 4) As for AutoLayout, I've watched multiple videos on it and I thought I was understanding it but, I will try watching some more and see if something clicks. Thank you. 
First of all why would you want a view controller who's view only contains the view of another view controller? In other words, why don't you use the SettingsChildTVC directly? Second you should use leading and trailing anchors instead of left and right. Also you don't need to constraint the width anchor if you are also constraining the left/leading and right/trailing. Other than that the implementation seems correct. If you see the table view it means that settingsChildTVC was successfully added to SettingsVC. The problem must lie on SettingsChildTVC.
With no background in programming at all, it will be hard but it's not impossible. We all start off with no programming background at some point, and here we are. Don't worry too much about learning Swift and start learning the iOS frameworks (if you want to do mobile development). Best way to do that is to pick a project and start working on it.
Okay, I was playing around with the settings, and for some reason my camera doesn't work anymore. I'm getting a "Thread1: breakpoint 1.1" message. 
You're asking the right questions! Each time you see an unfamiliar piece of code (including open-source) take some time to make sense of a few lines that look new to you. Also examine how different classes interact and see what common patterns you may notice (example: commonly used `delegate` pattern). When writing your own code, at first, just make it work any way you can and improve later (often times much later.) So, "baby steps" -- each time you'll learn a bit and make more sense of how things fit. No one has learned this in a day. G'luck!
Swift is actually pretty simple to learn. There are a lot (free) learning materials for beginners (from Apple). But syntax and basic programming concepts like arrays, enums, classes and Model-View-Controller are only one part of learning how to make apps. The other part is how to connect things and make them work. Working with UIKit (iOS) or Cocoa (OSX), protocols, delegates, data persistence, using API's, frameworks, passing data between controllers in organized manner, creating meaningful interfaces - that's where the real fun begins. It takes lot of practice, trials and errors. Don't expect spectacular progress and try to have fun. I also recommend learning another programming language (c#, python), while learning swift - it gives a broader perspective, you'll be able to compare things, see similarities and differences. Have fun and good luck.
I can highly recommend Angela Yu’s Udemy course. I picked it up for £10. She’s walks you through everything with real examples and you learn by doing, it’s great fun! I picked it up a month ago and I’ve nearly finished it, whilst building my own app on the side. Granted, I’ve been pulling long hours on it most days to do so. But at a moderate pace you could learn a lot of the language in a few months. I think everyone who has taken that course would agree with me on how great it is. 
oh! I thought we could use protocols like that as I saw this in a video on youtube so I tried this way. But thanks for telling me all this. 
To put it simply, things are always scary at first because it takes time for your mind to fully understand the tools at hand. The juml from beginner tl intermediate is hard but I found it is best to throw yourself.at a project you don't think you can possibly finish and build it piece by piece. Every app is broken down into much smaller pieces, you may know 2 out of 20 pieces but they are all small and might takes you days but that thing is don't get distracted. Keep searching and changing how you Google your question and if all else fails ask. Best of luck.
I think you might be asking the wrong question. Swift, Golang, Rust, etc, all are modern systems programming languages with similar characteristics. Learning one vs. the other won't be that different. My question for you is 'what do you want to do with Swift once you learn to use it?' At the end of the day programming is far less about the languages you know as it is about what the right tool for the job you want to do is. Building a simple website that doesn't require user accounts or data storage? Sounds like you should learn JavaScript and HTML/CSS. Building a mobile app that needs persistent data storage and notifications support? Take a look at Swift with a Firebase back-end. For now, though, you're going to benefit the most from studying the basics of \*software engineering\* in any language you choose. For mobile apps understanding the "patterns" that are used, like so-called Protocol Oriented Programming that's heavily used in iOS APIs, will help you much more than a deep knowledge of swift specifically. Golang, for instance, also heavily uses Protocol-based patterns (though in go they're called 'interfaces') and what you learn in Swift will be easily applicable and transferable there. TL;DR: focus on learning programming patterns and designs in a language that's most applicable to the first thing you are interested in building, don't worry about what specific language is easiest.
For me, the best way to start out was tutorials. [www.raywenderlich.com](https://www.raywenderlich.com) and [App Coda](https://appcoda.com) are two awesome sites, start a beginner or intermediate course and work through the whole thing, at your own pace. Make sure you actually write down every line of code and test the apps you build during the tutorials at every step. Try to understand why things work and the patterns that apple uses in their language. Many of the features you need will be taught in the tutorials. Optionally, take Stanford's intro programming course online, it teaches you the fundamentals in a way that's intended for future professionals. Most of it will probably be review but if anything it teaches good habits in programming which is huge. At some point in time someone is going to read your code, and they need to understand it. The course will help you build your project on an intellectual framework that makes sense. Code, Code, Code. Experience is the best teacher. Every time you get an error, figure out what happened. Try to do it yourself, it you can't then try stackoverflow (or just google it). Keep reworking your old code as you get better. Start your project, but realize it will look totally different when it is done and you are a better coder. You may need to restart the whole thing over a few times as you understand the structure of your app a bit more. Don't get discouraged. It will take time. Within a year of starting development I built an app and started a company that I thought would take years and years. It is doable. Keep at it and don't give up hope. 
Are you trying to set the constraint to zero to the top of the black box or to the view containing the button? I would suggest renaming your views to be more descriptive so you know exactly which view your constraint is relative to.
It seems if I close the gap, and then apply the constraints it works. I was under the impression that adding the constraints would close the gap for me, when in actuality it's the opposite. Yeah, I'm going to start renaming my views. Thank you for the tip. 
Well, you *can* do it that way but it's not really the right tool for the job. Also, there is a difference between protocols and the delegate pattern. The delegate pattern is implemented with protocols but protocols are useful for other things too. And it can be hard to understand the difference when starting out. But since you were trying to use delegates, here's an example of a better use for them that's the inverse of the relationship you were building. Let's say that your ImageViewController had actions that you could perform like, say, a delete button. Having the ImageViewController delegate the handling of that action to the ViewController would be a good idea since ViewController is the one displaying all of them. **ImageViewController:** protocol ImageActionDelegate: class { func deleted(image: UIImage?) } class ImageViewController: UIViewController { weak var actionDelegate: ImageActionDelegate? var image: UIImage? @IBOutlet var imageView: UIImageView! override func viewDidLoad() { super.viewDidLoad() imageView.image = image } @IBAction func delete(sender: Any?) { actionDelegate?.deleted(image: imageView.image) } } **ViewController:** class ViewController: UIViewController { let images = [#imageLiteral(resourceName: "2"),#imageLiteral(resourceName: "1"),#imageLiteral(resourceName: "3"),#imageLiteral(resourceName: "4"),#imageLiteral(resourceName: "5")] override func viewDidLoad() { super.viewDidLoad() } } extension ViewController: ImageActionDelegate { func deleted(image: UIImage?) { // handle the deletion } } extension ViewController: UICollectionViewDataSource, UICollectionViewDelegate { //Removed common tableview functions func collectionView(_ collectionView: UICollectionView, didSelectItemAt indexPath: IndexPath) { if let iVc: ImageViewController = self.storyboard?.instantiateViewController(withIdentifier: "ImageViewController") as? ImageViewController { iVc.image = images[indexPath.row] iVc.actionDelegate = self self.navigationController?.pushViewController(iVc, animated: true) } } } In this scenario, ViewController gives ImageViewController the image to display, and receives a callback when the user hits the delete button. That makes the ImageViewController unaware of how or where it is being presented. It does not need to know that ViewController even exists or what it is. It only has a delegate to talk to.
One of the things that I would suggest is that you break things down based on your personal goals. If you are looking for a job, gear your work towards what the jobs are asking for. If you are trying to develop a certain app, gear towards the requirement of that app... IMO, some of the "intermediate" doesn't really help the app. I focus on what gives the customers what they want. Some things in code are great, but add very little. I like the \_ being used when you don't want the named param, guard let vs if let vs other options... it's nice to have to code look clean, doesn't add to the function of the app, but clean code is good. Break things down to advanced features to your app vs advanced code that no customer will see. Advanced feature to your app will sell apps and **SHOULD BE** priority for getting a job. Some jobs just look at code, not API knowledge. I'd take one area at a time. Data storage: Core Data, Realm/Firebase, user settings, etc... Data presentation: stack view, collection view, in code, in IB/story boards, etc... Getting data, connection to outside servers...
I think Python is a better language for learning the fundamentals. Swift confronts you with some more advanced concepts like nullability, protocols, and generics which may be a bit much to take in if you are still getting used to the basics of loops and objects. 
What makes you think that Python 3 string slicing is linear instead of constant?
If only I had some way to decide if I wanted this... Oh right, nope. That was easy!
A million times this. Swift also confronts you with static typing which I’m worried makes things more complicated for the beginner... but I could be wrong. 
Do it. It’s just like choosing a topic for a YouTube channel. If you are interested in, some people will be too.
So you're asking us to make a decision about an app that helps us make a decision... Is this like the Magic 8 Ball app?
Reply hazy, try again
That actually fixed it! Yes. I forgot it needed to be instantiated from the storyboard. Thank you
The other answer fixed the issue but to answer your question regarding why would I want to do it this way? Well, UITableViewControllers are not really customisable. I mean, you can put a button outside the scope of the table view. So, it's just easier to add it as a child view controller and add a Navigation bar, buttons, etc. 
I think the app you are describing is not basic/intermediate. The app you propose has a lot of different concepts and several of them are tricky. I think you should choose a much smaller more focused project/idea. Especially if you haven’t written an app yet, but have just learned the various topics you mentioned. 
[https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uinavigationcontroller](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uinavigationcontroller)
Push and pop are terms used to describe a "stack." You "push" something onto a stack, and "pop" it off to remove it. A navigation controller is a stack for viewcontrollers. The root viewcontroller is at the bottom of the stack. When you push a new viewcontroller, that slides in and covers the root. When you press the back button, you pop that viewcontroller and now the root is visible again. 
Oh, right. Good catch by /u/ShottyMcKeith! A UITableViewController is a UIViewController whose view is a UITableView and not a UIView. Outside of it's main view (the table view) it is as much customizable as any other view controller (the navigation bar etc). Other than that it offers as much customization as the table view allows (which isn't much). If you want a screen with a table view and some other UI elements why not use a UITableView directly?
this is too much code, you have to know where the program messed up and go from there. Which part is giving the error would be a good start. Maybe this will help you. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31879819/switch-front-back-camera-with-avcapturesession
I can understand your situation very much. Half a year ago, i was at the same stage as you are right now. Honestly, the only that that really helped me was **trial and error**. Use the docs from FireBase in combination with YouTube videos. There are tons of Youtube videos that cover the basics of FireBase. Personally i'd recommend watching LetsBuildThatApp or Briand Advent. They do some very good basic tutorials which should give you a headstart. But theres one important bit, **don't** just copy the code from the video. Try to recognize the code from the doc's and compare it with the code from the video you are watching. Try to understand how the person implemented that bit of code you did not understand how to use. Then try it on your own. By just copying you won't learn anything at all. But most important is that you understand Swift at it's core first. "guard let" or "weak var" are not described in the docs of FireBase as they are native Swift functions (which are expected to be known). Remember, there's a big difference between knowing what for-loop is, but implementing in such a way that you can use it for your specific task is a never ending learning process. Compare it to math, knowing the rules of calculus does not mean you're able to derrive any function. It needs a lot of practicing. And let's not forget that writing a network application with Swift is not easy at all. Dealing with synchrony can be a pain in the a\*\*. There's a lot to learn about the DispatchQueue etc... If you need any help, feel free to message me. And good luck on your Swift journey! 
Username checks out.
Im working on my Matura-Thesis Game. Im implementing a role game based on D&amp;D, which i have created by myself. A huge part of the game is augmented reality. There are tiles that can be placed on a table by the players to build up a fighting scene. Those tiles get recognized with the ar image recognizer and the choosen model get placed. Makes a pen and paper much more intresting and alive. Currently im implementing the skill tree a user can choose while creating his character.
After you manually write in “0” for the bottom constraint and the vertical bar turns red, then you hit “add constraints”, the button I circled in red in my screenshot below, should light up... and if you hit that, it should update your views size in interface builder to match what your constraints say they should be. https://imgur.com/a/3NTQ6m5 Maybe that’s what you’re talking about?
^(Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image) **https://i.imgur.com/XRheTVQ.jpg** ^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&amp;subject=ignoreme&amp;message=ignoreme) ^^| ^^[deletthis](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&amp;subject=delet%20this&amp;message=delet%20this%20e2b823t) 
I'm dedicated to the craft, and I freelance. Are you a full time developer?
Let me start of with saying I am also relatively new to iOS development but this is how I would approach this. I would start with having a collection of structs that represent you labels. This struct would contain a property for the label text and also a property for a list of image identifiers. When you take the picture you will hold the image in memory and show your table view with a list of the labels. Your table view data source can be your collection of structs. Using this for your data source would also allow your table view to display a count of pictures with each label. Once you click a label in the table view you would want to save your image to the file system using a unique image name. Then add that image name to the labels struct in the image identifiers list. After saving you can segue to another view. If you want a grid like display of thumbnails a collection view may be better than messing around with table view. When you argue you can pass the struct for the label that was clicked and use it as your data source. When creating the cells for the collection view you can load the image with the given identifier from disk and put it in an image view in the cell. Embed this all in a navigation controller and you get the buttons at the top to go back and take another picture.
Don't use tuples for much more than transient values, if you find yourself using tuples a lot you might want to refactor them into actual structures. A quick example: struct Card { enum Varient { case one, two, three } let number : Varient let shape : Varient let color : Varient let shading: Varient } Now each `Card` has 4 features with 3 variants for each. For additional clarity you might want to make an `enum` for each feature, like this: struct Card { enum Number { case one, two, three } enum Shape { case circle, square, triangle } enum Color { case red, green, blue } enum Shading { case quarter, half, full } let number : Number let shape : Shape let color : Color let shading: Shading } 
I agree with u/thisischemistry, use a struct with an enum for each characteristic. In addition, with the new CaseIterable protocol in Swift 4, it's easy to write a static property to compute all possible card values: struct Card { enum Number : CaseIterable { case one, two, three } enum Shape : CaseIterable { case circle, square, triangle } enum Color : CaseIterable { case red, green, blue } enum Shading : CaseIterable { case quarter, half, full } let number : Number let shape : Shape let color : Color let shading: Shading static let allCards: [Card] = { var cards: [Card] = [] for number in Number.allCases { for shape in Shape.allCases { for color in Color.allCases { for shading in Shading.allCases { cards.append(Card(number: number, shape: shape, color: color, shading: shading)) } } } } return cards }() } The nested for loops could probably be expressed more elegantly using functional programming, but I haven't had my coffee yet this morning. The piecewise initializer for Card *should* be also be synthesized for you by the compiler.
To be completely honest, I wouldn't even look up online courses. Google is your best friend. I started by wanting to make an app for my friends and me to use and I literally googled every step on the way there. It's rough that way, but coming from personal experience, you will most definitely pick it up on the way. 
I was just about to add something similar. However, `CaseIterable` is not Swift 4, it's Swift 4.2 which is in beta right now. Here's now to do it now: struct Card { let number : Number let shape : Shape let color : Color let shading: Shading enum Number { case one, two, three static var all: [Number] = [.one, .two, .three] } enum Shape { case circle, square, triangle static var all: [Shape] = [.circle, .square, .triangle] } enum Color { case red, green, blue static var all: [Color] = [.red, .green, .blue] } enum Shading { case quarter, half, full static var all: [Shading] = [.quarter, .half, .full] } static let set: [Card] = { Number.all.flatMap { number -&gt; [Card] in Shape.all.flatMap { shape -&gt; [Card] in Color.all.flatMap { color -&gt; [Card] in Shading.all.map { shading -&gt; Card in return Card(number: number, shape: shape, color: color, shading: shading) }}}}}() } let set = Card.set
I've never done it before myself but based on previous experience I'd guess you just compile it and publish the app any way you like. Is this something you have tried and are having an issue with? I'd like to know the process too if there is more to it.
&gt;I’m just starting iOS development and one of the first things I’m building is a game of set. I’m having trouble with how to represent a card in UI. A card has 4 features: number, shape, color and shading, each having 3 variants like 3 shapes etc. I was thinking something along the lines of having 4 tuples or something for the features and some way to find different combinations of all of them but each combination only happening once. I’m not entirely sure how to go about this so any help would be appreciated. To add to this, you can define the different cases of your card here (this is your model). And then in your View, you actually add the UI components. So here you define what the differences are, e.g., case one, case two, case three, and then in your view you can represent what that actually looks like. 
Build your dmg and stick it on some server somewhere and link to it. Are you having trouble with this step? Not exactly sure what answer you're looking for. 
You can download it to you phone and use it otherwise if you have a developer account you can use test flight
I have complete my application, I have no idea what to do next. I don't want to release it to the appstore, I just want to use it personally. 
https://developer.apple.com/developer-id/
It's a macOS application, not an phone app. 
Now this is helpful, thank you. 
They are asking about macOS apps ;)
Basically, going back. Pushing is going forward.
I'm pressed for time right now but when you build the app it should appear somewhere in the project browser on the left. If it's just for your own use you should be able to drag it from there to wherever you want to keep the app and work fine. Don't quote me on any of this because I've not had time to check 😂
Thanks again
You want to archive your application which will open a new window which will allow you to export (and I think optionally sign, for distribution outside of the app store) the .app file. I'm not anywhere near my Mac at the moment, but if you'd like me to write up more thorough instructions later PM me and I'll do so when I have access to my dev machine.
This is great I am actually using the same thing for my model. What I meant to ask was how to display this in my view. I haven’t studied drawing yet so I’m using basic shapes using attributed strings to change shading, color etc. I don’t know how to go about creating a dictionary for these strings. Currently I’m creating separate dictionaries but I just know there has to be a better way. Plus these only account for one color. Two other colors would mean 6 more dictionaries. My professor will have a heart attack seeing this code: let solidAttributes : [NSAttributedStringKey: Any] = [ .strokeWidth : -5.0 , .strokeColor : UIColor(named: “red”)!, .foregroundColor : UIColor(named: “red”)!.withAlphaComponent(1) ] let outlineAttributes : [NSAttributedStringKey: Any] = [ .strokeWidth : 5.0 , .strokeColor : UIColor(named: “red)!, .foregroundColor : UIColor(named: “red”)!.withAlphaComponent(1) ] let stripedAttributes : [NSAttributedStringKey: Any] = [ .strokeWidth : -5.0 , .strokeColor : UIColor(named: “red”)!, .foregroundColor : UIColor(named: “red”)!.withAlphaComponent(0.15) ] 
[Understanding What You Can Sell Using In-App Purchase](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/StoreKitGuide/Chapters/Products.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008267-CH2-SW3) &gt; You can use In-App Purchase to sell content, app functionality, and services. &gt; &gt; - Content. Deliver digital content or assets, such as magazines, photos, and artwork. Content can also be used by the app itself—for example, additional characters and levels in a game, filters in a camera app, and stationery in a word processor. &gt; - App functionality. Unlock behavior and expand features you’ve already delivered. Examples include a free game that offers multiplayer mode as an in-app purchase and a free weather app that lets users make a one-time purchase to remove ads. &gt; - Services. Have users pay for one-time services such as voice transcription and for ongoing services such as access to a collection of data. &gt; &gt; You can’t use In-App Purchase to sell real-world goods and services or to sell unsuitable content. &gt; &gt; - Real-world goods and services. You must deliver a digital good or service within your app when using In-App Purchase. Use a different payment mechanism to let your users buy real-world goods and services in your app, such as a credit card or payment service. &gt; - Unsuitable content. Don’t use In-App Purchase to sell content that the isn’t allowed by the App Review Guidelines—for example, pornography, hate speech, or defamation. &gt; &gt; For detailed information about what you can offer using In-App Purchase, see your [license agreement and the App Review Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/appstore/guidelines.html). Reviewing the guidelines carefully before you start coding helps you avoid delays and rejection during the review process. If the guidelines don’t address your case in sufficient detail, you can ask the App Review team specific questions using the [online contact form](https://developer.apple.com/appstore/contact/). &gt; &gt; After you know what products you want to sell in your app and determine that In-App Purchase is the appropriate way to sell those products, you need to create the products in App Store Connect. Going from this it seems like that's allowed. It would fall under "App functionality".
Why not just add the attributes to the model `enum` and read them directly from there? enum Color { case red, green, blue var attribute: UIColor { switch self { case .red : return .red case .green: return .green case .blue : return .blue } } Now when you have a `Card` you can do something like: let color = myCard.color.attribute
How’d I know it was you, Amichail?
Personally, I think static typing is a great exercise for a beginner simply because it makes them think in types rather than the "magic" of untyped things. I'd rather teach in a more restrictive environment, learn what types are all about, and then move to a more free one once you have the knowledge to use the openness. That being said, there are definite advantages to a less-strict environment and some aspects would be easier for a beginner.
I would say no, what it does take is patience and perseverance - if it's not something you're really committed to then I wouldn't take the time. If it's something that you really know that you want to do, then go for it. This is coming from someone that tried to pick it up 3 times - and has finally committed to learning
Thank you! I think I get the gist of what you are saying. I will look into creating a list of structs and see how it works out. 
Ah, I didn't know about the button in the red circle. Thank you. I actually solved the problem, by manually adjusting the coordinates, so I play around with it next time I get a chance. Thank you. 
Well where do I start though????? I tried looking up sign in and sign up for swift and it's either outdated or doesn't make sense but yet it's the first step of creating an app! That's another issue, there are so many versions that 80-90% of the tutorials are for old versions of swift, I don't know if what I'm less I g is still useable or not it's annoying
That’s not really “releasing” it, though. Just build it, move it from the build folder to wherever you want, and use it. Archive it if you want to run a non-debug build, instead. 
You can have default behaviors built into a protocol, for example: protocol Person { var name: String { get set } func hi() } extension Person { func hi() { print("Hi, \(self.name)") } } struct ConcretePerson: Person { var name: String } let joe = ConcretePerson(name: "Joe") joe.hi() // "Hi, Joe" You can also have functions that use the protocol to do things, for example: func bye(person: Person) { print("Bye, \(person.name)") } bye(person: joe) 
Oh sorry I didnt read that closely enough 
Thanks so much for the post! It's so simple but I wasn't aware extensions could be used like that on a protocol. Awesome! :)
Because that UI color is purely a view thing and I don’t want to mix it with my model. I’m trying to follow strict mvc architecture 
Mapping `UIColor` to an enum in your model is not necessarily violating MVC principles. If you have an image you want to display is that a violation of MVC if you store it in your model? Is text stored in your model a violation of MVC? MVC is mainly about code, not data. The specific `UIColor` is just a data wrapper around a value, no more. It is a model of data. The code to display that data should be in your view, the code to store the data should be in your model.
My gosh I just ran in to the same problem 
One caution is that things could get a bit tricky with protocol extensions. It's something called dispatch. Whenever you call a method the computer needs to know where the code for that method is stored. It then finds that code and uses it, this is called dispatch. There are several different methods of dispatch: - static dispatch - dynamic dispatch Static dispatch (also known as direct dispatch) is pretty simple. The code is in a fixed place and can be used directly. Dynamic dispatch is where the code might be in a different place than normal and the system has to do some sort of lookup to find it. The specifics really aren't necessary to the discussion here. The main thing is that if you have a protocol with a function in an extension and you override the function you have to be aware which version gets called. There's a couple of articles on the topic and they have a nifty diagram to help: [Demystifying Swift protocol extensions with default parameters](https://medium.com/@lorenzogreco/demystifying-swift-protocol-extensions-with-default-parameters-1a482d7bdba7) You can see it in this example: protocol First { func foo() } extension First { func foo() {} func bar() {} } struct Second: First { func foo() {} func bar() {} } let test1: Second = Second() let test2: First = Second() first1.foo() // calls Second's version of foo first2.foo() // calls Second's version of foo first1.bar() // calls Second's version of bar first2.bar() // calls First's version of bar &lt;------- WOOPS! So, even though both objects are created as `Second` in the last case you get the `First` version of the method - even though it's defined in `Second`. This can be confusing if you don't know about it ahead of time. It happens because the protocol declares `foo` but not `bar` so the dispatch is different between them and `Second`'s version can only be called when the type of the variable is `Second`. Since we set `first2` to `First` it calls `First`'s version. If you do this you'll get `Second`'s version: (first2 as! Second).bar() // calls Second's version of bar That's because we're telling the code that we want it to use this object as `Second`. 
Good to know. I didn’t know that like I said I’ve just started
That's why I'm glad you brought it up. A lot of terms get thrown around and they trigger all sorts of conceptions, good and bad ones both. Unless we question and discuss and clarify we'll never know if we're going off on a bad path. Believe me, we've all been through learning this stuff!
Kudos on having notes and transcriptions of actual code text in your post. They make it much easier to understand your code, especially for those of us who don't deal well with video.
thanks for noticing :) it's a bit of work to do both, but I started to scribble down the code examples while pausing the recording which makes it feasible :)
TheYou can use the build in NSUnitLength https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsunitlength?language=swift
i find all of the apple documentation to be horrible. specially if you are coming into swift with no C, C++ or ObjC background. what i do, is i just try it out in xcode and hope the autocomplete hints me in the right direction. 
I find that [Ray Wenderlich ](http://raywenderlich.com) is often a good place to start. Their tutorials often also have a working sample so I can try stuff out. 
ARKit is a pretty big framework – it might help if you clarify what part you're interested in. For example, I just posted [an example of image tracking](https://twitter.com/twostraws/status/1017886729875984384) and [another example of gaze detection](https://twitter.com/twostraws/status/1017806921447936000), but both of those are just small parts of the larger framework.
I think I’m gonna do ray wenderlich screencast after my udemy bootcamp. I’m hearing too many good things about the site. I’m so excited to learn b build my first app 
I was under the impression that protocols don't add functionality, they setup rules for how to interface between two objects. Someone explained it as HOW two things interact, meaning a set of rules for how things are allowed to interact. Kinda like defining a class. In a class, you can say "this var is private, this method is public, etc..." You make up the rules based on how the object is expected to work. If you look at how nations and departments interact with each other, they use the phrase "following protocol" pro·to·colˈprōdəˌkôl,ˈprōdəˌkäl/*noun* 1. 1.the official procedure or system of rules governing affairs of state or diplomatic occasions."protocol forbids the prince from making any public statement in his defense"
For some reason, I just can't stand Apple's documentation. Just download some project and go thru the code. I've been doing marathon tutorials for months and months now and it gets really old for people to sit there and do the "type what I type as I type it" or "wall of words". I just want to know what code does what. I bought a few of the Udemy ARkit tutorials but haven't dug into them yet.
Nope, see my [answer](https://old.reddit.com/r/swift/comments/8yldgv/a_small_question_about_protocols/e2brebr/). They absolutely can add functionality.
I’m still mystified by react native. 
I’m currently on section 6. It’s been interesting so far. Just getting into variables and data types. Sounds like you have programming background though. Anyways I can just about squeeze a section a day. I really wanna do as much Possible but still have my full time job too :( 
To be determined when we see more about the scope and changes coming in Swift 5. Our current plan is a Swift 4.2 release for the iOS book, but if something bigger than “just” ABI stability comes in Swift 5 (like async-await) then we might delay the release to update it for Swift 5. For our Swift (not iOS) book, we plan on a Swift 5 update in the spring. 
Awesome, thanks for the reply! I’ll be getting both books! 
The free Apple book App Development with Swift has just added a chapter on ARKit. I haven’t done it yet myself but the tutorial looks decent and the rest of the book is really good. Might be a good place to start? 
For those interested in how people learn to program, I thought this was very interesting: [Programming Paradigms and Beyond](http://cs.brown.edu/~sk/Publications/Papers/Published/kf-prog-paradigms-and-beyond/paper.pdf)
This may not seem like much but im so proud that I was able to add a mock ad. I failed for the last couple of hours, I had no one to tell this too, but im so happy it finally worked.
Great! Now make a decent app to go with it.
Congrats! It's always great to get something working after spending a bunch of time fiddling with it. Good luck on the rest of the app.
Haha thanks! I underestimated what goes to creating an app, this made me realize it’s not as easy as what we see. Best of luck to you too!
Will do! I have a new appreciation behind what makes an app now 
Yeah, apps are a lot more complex than they seem. But they are obviously doable, it just takes dedication and a willingness to learn new things.
This is great code especially the allCards one, but should card have a method that creates all possible cards? Isn't that the game's job? A card should technically only have these four attributes it should not know about other cards. I have another struct called set that contains an array of cards called deck. I think it should be the set structs job to create a unique card and put it inside a deck. I previously created a concentration game using the same logic and there I was told that a card should not know about other cards even though there's nothing wrong with it, it's just bad design. Hope this makes sense. If I'm wrong then please let me know :)
This made me giggle. 
Just a note that the folks who publish Set are known to defend their game aggressively, so best to not try to publish in the App Store as a direct clone of their game.
I'm not going to publish the game it's just a project for educational purposes. 
I don't see any harm in having the `Card` class create a `Collection` of all possible cards. It has to be done somewhere and what's the difference what class does it? You can certainly make other structures that hold a collection of cards and which have the semantics of a deck of cards: struct Deck { var cards: [Card] = Card.allCards mutating func shuffle() { ... } mutating func sort() { ... } mutating func draw() -&gt; Card? { return cards.popLast() } } It's not bad design at all, you're keeping related methods and properties close to the type. I'd probably do it in an extension though, it's good design principles to keep the main definition of the type fairly sparse and add on extra functionality in an extension: struct Card { let number : Number ... } extension Card { static let allCards: [Card] = { ... } } You can even put each section of a type in its own file for better organization so you'd have files like: Card.swift Card+allCards.swift Basically it makes it easier to compartmentalize your code into manageable bites.
The other thing is that we're using a very general name for a specific style of cards. In reality I'd probably name them something else in case I had other styles in my game: protocol Card {} struct PokerCard: Card {} struct FourStyleCard: Card {} In this case it makes perfect sense to generate a whole set of cards from each specific style. Each style would have its own rules for generating a set. Then `Deck` could be made more generic so it holds any style of card.
You should think of this like building blocks. You've got one more to add to your collection. You spend a day or so on this, then move to the next... After a while, you have a bunch of these building blocks in your bag and you can do all kinds of powerful things. It tends to get easier over time because you've learned other things that transfer to other parts of iOS development.
Woah, that’s actually an inspiring way to look at things! Will do, the relief that I got from being able to solve this felt exhilarating. Thanks!
Swift is my first language I’ve really learned. I’ve done bits and pieces with matlab for my degree, but only to do maths. 
Yeah. I’m gonna persist. Build my own app and transition my career to iOS developer. I will still hold on to my web dev skills as it helped me learn swift a little 
Nice. 
Here's the actual repo: https://github.com/AudioKit/AudioKitSynthOne
Keep it up man. Some of the concepts and lectures will get tougher but it’s definitely worth the perseverance 
Wouldn't digging for the constraints in code take the same time as digging for them in IB? I mean, at least with IB you no longer have to picture the constraints in your head.
&gt; The Python example is correct in Python 3, but it's O(n) performance. It's O(1) for the exact reason that it's still not unicode-correct. Python 3 strings are not bytestrings anymore, but they're still just USV (codepoints) so you can split in the middle of a grapheme cluster: https://repl.it/repls/FlickeringFriendlyOpentracker Swift indexes work in term of grapheme clusters: https://repl.it/repls/CloseMistyOs (the UTF8 length confirms that Swift has not normalised the string: utf8("hello world") is 11 bytes, the extra two are from the U+0308 COMBINING DIAERESIS (0xCC88 in UTF8)
I was trying to find the rss but could find it. It would be really cool if you could have a RSS feed of the citations so we could have it in Siri shortcuts :p
&gt;This is great code especially the allCards one, but should card have a method that creates all possible cards? Isn't that the game's job? A card should technically only have these four attributes it should not know about other cards. Note that \`allCards\` is \`static\`, so it's not actually a card doing it – it's the \`Card\` type itself, which obviously knows about all possible cards.
Once again thanks alot for the in-depth answers. It's long journey but stuff like this really helps the process of learning!
Hey, Friedbeaver, just a quick heads-up: **alot** is actually spelled **a lot**. You can remember it by **it is one lot, 'a lot'**. Have a nice day! ^^^^The ^^^^parent ^^^^commenter ^^^^can ^^^^reply ^^^^with ^^^^'delete' ^^^^to ^^^^delete ^^^^this ^^^^comment.
Post your stack trace. 
Sorry, I am a total beginner. What is a stack trace?
Just copy paste your entire console output with the errors. Also learn to use breakpoints, it might help with this particular bug.
It’s in the title!
Just sign with a developer ID and you’re free to distribute in any way. Not bound to some review process OR sandbox! True freedom ;)
Yes, what chuby1tubby said. https://i.imgur.com/UuJbzE2.jpg
I just launched Wormholy today, but I worked on it in my spare time from April :) It's an open source library that simplify the network debugging on iOS: [https://github.com/pmusolino/Wormholy](https://github.com/pmusolino/Wormholy)
Glad to help, keep the questions coming!
I'm glad you mentioned this, I meant to but left that point out of my reply. Yes, the `Card` type is something different from a single `Card` instance. The type encompasses all possible `Card` variants, an instance represents a single `Card`.
you need to add your player to a avPlayerLayer and then insert it as a sublayer in your view. I have this code in a function setupVideo guard let theUrl = Bundle.main.url(forResource: "smoke", withExtension: "mov") else { return } avPlayer = AVPlayer(url: theUrl) avPlayerLayer = AVPlayerLayer(player: avPlayer) avPlayerLayer.videoGravity = AVLayerVideoGravity.resizeAspectFill avPlayer.volume = 0 avPlayer.actionAtItemEnd = .none view.backgroundColor = #colorLiteral(red: 0.8039215803, green: 0.8039215803, blue: 0.8039215803, alpha: 1).withAlphaComponent(0.06) view.layer.insertSublayer(avPlayerLayer, at: 0) avPlayerLayer.frame = view.layer.bounds 
you need to add your player to a avPlayerLayer and then insert it as a sublayer in your view. I have this code in a function setupVideo guard let theUrl = Bundle.main.url(forResource: "smoke", withExtension: "mov") else { return } avPlayer = AVPlayer(url: theUrl) avPlayerLayer = AVPlayerLayer(player: avPlayer) avPlayerLayer.videoGravity = AVLayerVideoGravity.resizeAspectFill avPlayer.volume = 0 avPlayer.actionAtItemEnd = .none view.layer.insertSublayer(avPlayerLayer, at: 0) avPlayerLayer.frame = view.layer.bounds 
You need to add your avPlayer to an avPlayerLayer and then insert the avPlayerLayer into your view. Here is a snippet inside of a setupVideo function in one of my apps: let theURL = Bundle.main.url(forResource: "demoVideo", withExtension: "mp4") avPlayer = AVPlayer(url: theUrl) avPlayerLayer = AVPlayerLayer(player: avPlayer) avPlayerLayer.videoGravity = AVLayerVideoGravity.resizeAspectFill avPlayer.volume = 0 avPlayer.actionAtItemEnd = .none view.layer.insertSublayer(avPlayerLayer, at: 0) avPlayerLayer.frame = view.layer.bounds
Hey thanks What is a avPlayerLayer and how do I use that? Its currently linked to a AVPlayer View so do I need to bring a avPlayerLayer in? also how do I do that?
Do you have work experience? If so maybe cut down on a project or two to add that section in. And for the objective-c think, maybe add a beginner, intermediate, expert section for the languages (familiar with works too”). Otherwise I think it looks good, what year are you?
Thanks for the feedback! My main concern is having no work experience (not even a summer job) and I was unable to get an internship last year (sophomore). I'm going into junior year.
You can try being a TA if you’re interested in work experience during school! Just get a head start and start applying soon!
My GPA's not too good (sub 3) so I'm not sure about that but I'll definitely try to look around. Any suggestions for places to find mobile heavy companies? I feel like I have a much better chance with those than general software positions but they seem more rare.
I just go on my universities job's website. Although I do recommend [https://intern.supply/](https://intern.supply/), most of those companies offer mobile intern positions.
Microsoft Objective-C runtime won't happen at all the language is proprietary and is exclusive to Mac OS environments. All things related to Swift programming will have a working runtime on many OS. 
This usually happens when you have an item in a view that has a connection to the controller. However, that item no longer exists in that controller. Therefore, when you try to load, your code crashes. I would click on a yellow circle in your view and then to the right side menu, the fifith option on top has all of the connectors that are attached to the view. 
In my tvOS I did the following: let mediaURL = URL(string: mediaURLString)! let asset = AVURLAsset(url: mediaURL) let playerItem = AVPlayerItem(asset: asset) let playerViewController = AVPlayerViewController() let player = AVPlayer(playerItem: playerItem) playerViewController.player = player self.present(playerViewController, animated: true) { /* Begin playing the media as soon as the controller has been presented. */ player.play() } This is roughly based on the example code from Apple. You can find it in the UI tvOS example app.
You can't.
Assembly? I'd remove that as irrevelent (and disingenuous-looking without specifying chipset) Put some dates or date ranges on the project. Swap the extracurricular section with education and list your school, major/minor, expected graduation date, and GPA if it's decent. You can keep the volunteer thing somewhere but narrow it down to one line with the club and dates, not the specific activities. I like your project listing and most of the description bullet points. Those are enough to put you ahead of many candidates for both internships and junior roles.
*beep beep* Hi, I'm JobsHelperBot, your friendly neighborhood jobs helper bot! My job in life is to help you with your job search but I'm just 299.9 days old and I'm still learning, so please tell me if I screw up. *boop* It looks like you're asking about resume advice. But, I'm only ~25% sure of this. Let me know if I'm wrong! Have you checked out TalentWorks, /r/resumes, TIME? They've got some great resources: * https://talent.works/blog/2018/01/08/the-science-of-the-job-search-part-i-13-data-backed-ways-to-win/ * https://www.reddit.com/r/resumes/ * http://time.com/money/4621066/free-resume-word-template-2017/
I’m sorry but I have to ask what is the need for this because the way I read it, it sounds like you want to make a pop up and that shit has been a problem since people realized you could put adverts in front of the content people want. So basically this sounds very suspect which I hope it isn’t. So try explaining what it is you are trying to do and maybe there might be a better solution that keeps everything within the confines of the app. 
Integrate useful tidbits you may want to use later in a framework you share between apps so you don’t have to code resuable components every time. After basically every first or second tutorial I read I got sth to add to my SharedCode framework which gets more and more mature so I can do high-level things without having to think about the minutia of - adding and removing child view controllers, anchoring them with a toView argument - creating an ErrorViewController - creating a LoadingViewController - CoreData stack loading from persistent from group, path or from inMemory - Lots of CoreData helpers - A generic CoreDataTableViewController showing data from NSFetchedResultsController, but only requiring giving an NSManagedObjectContext, an NSManagedType, a delegate and a celltype - String helpers - Device.uuid - NSManagedObjectContext simplified fetching, reloading(fromContext:), loadOnlyOnce Then there are templates for NSManagedObjects to not have to type boilerplate and wrapper every time from scratch. Templates for controllers and ViewControllers. AppModel with AppController template. Lots more templates. Thats what I came up with off the top of my head, all used today, which spared me writing these features again and again. The only problem with it is that its mixed iOS/macOS, so not all is available on both platforms so I have to expand it sometimes to the other platform which is no worry either.
The only reason to do it that way (in this case) is because of opinion. A lot of Swift programmers, myself included, would use the simpler syntax. If reading the code makes you turn your nose up at it, I share that response. Less code is more. :) That said, if you omitted the type annotation, then you would need to create a array using the line: ‘’’var tracksArray = [SKSpriteNode]()’’’ ...as the compiler wouldn’t have enough type information to figure out the type of tracksArray. Having written swift code with a lot of people who are new to Swift, and who come from a different language background, I’ve noticed that programmers from Java, C#, C++, etc. tend to use the more verbose syntax a lot since it’s required/different in those languages.
Lol you’re acting like I’m Tom Riddle trying to see the restricted books section at Hogwarts. I didn’t think this is possible, just checking here if anyone knows a way to do it. It’d be a visual assistant for other apps, nothing to do with pop ups or adverts. 
This is why I asked and was only explaining what it sounded like to me and possibly others. I thought there was more to it and I hope you are able to come up with something that gets you the end result you are looking for.
They are meaning the same thing in this instance. () &amp; =[] are both initializing an empty array. 
Over all the resume looks fine especially for an internship. I'd probably simplify / re-word you volunteer work though, tbh... I personally like that it's there, but "Communicated and engaged with residents in casual conversation."... ? Really? Maybe shorten it to one bullet that sums up what ya were doing over there in general - making coffee doesn't need its own bullet point. Oh, I'd suggest renaming the section to "Volunteering" or "Volunteer" ... "Extracurricular" sounds like you're applying to college, and plus, aren't some of your apps "Extracurricular" too? Two more things: \- On the Mafia game... what do you mean by "multithreading network request calls"? Don't all network requests go on a background thread anyways? Is the point that you learned how to write asynchronous code? I might consider re-wording it or leaving this bullet off in general. \- Might be worth mentioning what language each of these apps is written in. Perhaps even a link to git repo?
users can't draw over other apps in iOS. it's only possible with native video elements right now iirc. other apps may come in a future update
It's better to describe what *results* happened due to your *actions*. Rather than simply describe your actions. For example than say, "I did xxx." =&gt; "I increased weekly downloads to the app by improving user experience by implementing xxx."
you sound like you're trying to gatekeep tbh
Thanks for the advice! I’ll definitely reword some of the stuff. Do you have any tips for putting numbers in the description? The most obvious ones would be downloads, users...etc but unfortunately I don’t have that many - 100~200ish per app. I find it hard to show number results in my descriptions
Any advice on how to do that for iOS projects specifically? I find it hard to leverage results and numbers when my apps haven’t been particularly successful. Thanks!
You’re correct on last part - I often write it like OP because I work with C# more and the shorter syntax looks weird to me. C# recently got inline property assignment, I’d be surprised if it even exists in Java. It’s still a bit more verbose in C#: private Car[] cars { get; set; } = new Car[]; etc 
I mean, I’m a professional iOS engineer and I only have one app of my own on the store. I don’t even know how many downloads / users but I’d be surprised if it was more than 10. I think if you have actual users it’s worth mentioning it. At the end of the day, (I think) you should aim to highlight specific interesting things about your apps rather than a bullet list of the same things for all of them.
This didn't make very much sense and answers a little bit but most seems off topic. I gave a bunch of features I want and you didn't give help for any of them, I'm confused what the point of this is? Other then using code again after you've coded it for a previous app or feature. 
Drawing over other apps is super common and useful in Android(Fb messenger is a great example), so there's no need to be SO suspicious.
Think about *why* you made your applications in the first place; was it because there was some inadequate app out there, to help solve some problem, etc.? You're wanting to dive into why you did what you did, rather than state what you did. I'd draw upon some research out there.
Try exporting the video via QuickTime to a web format, I’ve had videos exported by AfterEffects, that just wouldn’t play.... the metadata could be in a messed format...
Not to be mean but you really should have had a job by this age... 
When you’re making a new object, like SKSpriteNode(), the () means you’re calling the initialization. Same for an array. You’re initializing an empty array that is of type SKSpriteNode. Same as = []. Creating an empty array. Different way of doing the same thing. Just like you can also do SKSpriteNode.init() to make a new object. Same as SKSpriteNode(). 
&gt; I gave a bunch of features I want and you didn't give help for any of them, I expect you are able to use google. &gt; Other then using code again after you've coded it for a previous app or feature. It helps me not get bogged down in minutia and to see the big picture. I thought you might like that for yourself but who knows.
[SKSpriteNode] doesn’t not equal [] but instead is actually syntactic sugar for Array&lt;SKSpriteNode&gt; So the right hand side is calling Array&lt;SKSpriteNode&gt;.init() to generate an empty array of SKSpriteNode. [] on the other hand is a an Array literal like how 1 and 2 can be Int literals. However, 1 &amp; 2 can also be representations for a Double literals. Hence why you might do something like let foo: Int = 1 let bar: Double = 2 But if you wanted to initialize using the init method it would look like let foo = Int(1) So why do both the : statement and the () init call? Well what if you want your variable to be an optional. You likely can’t call Int.init?(1) because your object might not an optional initializer so instead you take advantage of left hand assignments let bar:Double? = Double(2) So let’s combine this all together TL:DR; var tracksArray: [SKSpriteNode]? = [SKSpriteNode]() // equals var tracksArray: Array&lt;SKSpriteNode&gt;? = Array&lt;SKSpriteNode&gt;.init() // because [SKSpriteNode] equals Array&lt;SKSpriteNode&gt; (which are types) // not [] (which is a value literal) // but there is nothing wrong with var tracksArray: [SKSpriteNode]? = [] Hope that helps clear things up :) 
If your Mac supports APFS, build/compile times are nearly instant now.
We are actually gaining time, so I start my day with building for an hour, just to get my youth back.
Actually just finished up and released my first app! I would love some feedback if anyone would like to check it out: [https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/boxes-arcade-game/id1409453290?mt=8](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/boxes-arcade-game/id1409453290?mt=8)
&gt; The line is from a tutorial in Udemy. I get it that we're trying to make an optional array that contains the SKSpriteNode types. But why wasn't the line done at this: &gt; &gt; They do they same thing but mean different things. 
App Store Link: [https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/boxes-arcade-game/id1409453290?mt=8](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/boxes-arcade-game/id1409453290?mt=8)
You can easily solve your problems in all three points by making a commitment to one approach: If you set custom colors in code, then always set your custom colors in code. If you always do it in IB, always do it in IB. In any case, if you read the Apple documentation on UIView initialization cycles where nib files are involved, this wouldn't be a problem for you. You'd always have two suspects to look into. The hot reload system you're looking for is exactly what you're complaining about: Interface Builder. The idea is that you modify the XIB file and not have to run the app before you see the UI changes. Your suggestion on style sheets is a very web-developer way of thinking of native app UI building, though.
&gt; You can’t just edit that in the Interface Builder when it’s powered by the backend like that. It must be a view created in code. So you expect to be able to pass, for example, a UIButton to the back-end via a REST API call and come back with the exact same instance but with the backend imposed button theme? This is not just impossible--it's also the wrong mental model for a solution to the problem of branding-compliant and consistent theming across all apps on all platforms in intends to deploy to. The appearance that any front-facing user interface takes is necessarily dependent on the operating system in which it runs and whatever the OS allows. No imposition from the backend can ever force that, so it only makes sense that the logical parts that apply the theming are written for and reside in the client code. At best, you can query the backend for hex codes that you can use as the client app developer, but all theming code must be written by you within the client app's codebase.
Every time you die you show a full screen ad for final fantasy? Uninstalled dude. 
So I tried the allCards method and it's not working I'm getting an error on return. Also swift is having trouble telling the type of constants in my card structure. it says &lt;&lt; error type &gt;&gt; next to all the constants like number, shape etc. and I get nothing when I option click them. I think this is also the cause of the error.
Yeah, I know its a bit much. I think I'll change it in the next update to only appear every certain number of deaths or if the user scores above a given value. 
Good idea and congrats on shipping!
Can you provide a code when you want to access number and it fails? 
I guess allNumbers shouldn’t be declared in the enum. Also, press Command + B and it’ll let you know the error.
static let allCards: [Card] = { Number.allCases.flatMap { number -&gt; [Card] in Shape.allCases.flatMap { shape -&gt; [Card] in Color.allCases.flatMap { color -&gt; [Card] in Shading.allCases.map { shading -&gt; Card in return Card(number: number, color: color, shading: shading, shape: shape) }}}}}() I get this error on return line : Cannot convert value of type 'Card.Number' to expected argument type 'Card.Color' shading, shape and colour are enums containing values that make sense for them just like number inside the same struct as number. this function is inside the extension of the same struct.
Yeah, this. The one thing that turns me off faster to a new game is ads that roll every round.
Good game way too many ads 
Thanks!
Thanks for playing! I'll look into changing this soon.
I was thinking about adding an in-app purchase to remove full screen ads for $1, though I'm unsure if that would help or if people would stop playing regardless of the option to remove ads.
If you are initializing it with an empty array then where in the code is it nil? I'm pretty sure it should be non-optional.
Set it up where it doesn't show the ad for the first couple days after installation or so. Nothing worse than trying to get into a game while being interrupted nonstop.
**2018-07-15 20:19:20.628868+0900 ServiceManagerDev\[84285:1963659\] \*\*\* Assertion failure in -\[UITableView \_configureCellForDisplay:forIndexPath:\], /BuildRoot/Library/Caches/com.apple.xbs/Sources/UIKit\_Sim/UIKit-3698.54.4/UITableView.m:9453** **2018-07-15 20:19:20.642421+0900 ServiceManagerDev\[84285:1963659\] \*\*\* Terminating app due to uncaught exception 'NSInternalInconsistencyException', reason: 'UITableView (&lt;UITableView: 0x7f9d0e040400; frame = (0 0; 414 736); clipsToBounds = YES; autoresize = W+H; gestureRecognizers = &lt;NSArray: 0x60c000249690&gt;; layer = &lt;CALayer: 0x600000030320&gt;; contentOffset: {0, -116}; contentSize: {414, 220}; adjustedContentInset: {116, 0, 49, 0}&gt;) failed to obtain a cell from its dataSource (&lt;ServiceManagerDev.BarViewController: 0x7f9d0d411a00&gt;)'** **\*\*\* First throw call stack:** **(** **0** **CoreFoundation** **0x000000010fe331e6 \_\_exceptionPreprocess + 294** **1** **libobjc.A.dylib** **0x000000010f4c8031 objc\_exception\_throw + 48** **2** **CoreFoundation** **0x000000010fe38472 +\[NSException raise:format:arguments:\] + 98** **3** **Foundation** **0x000000010ef6b652 -\[NSAssertionHandler handleFailureInMethod:object:file:lineNumber:description:\] + 193** **4** **UIKit** **0x00000001106f350b -\[UITableView \_configureCellForDisplay:forIndexPath:\] + 433** **5** **UIKit** **0x00000001107065fa -\[UITableView \_createPreparedCellForGlobalRow:withIndexPath:willDisplay:\] + 930** **6** **UIKit** **0x0000000110706ae4 -\[UITableView \_createPreparedCellForGlobalRow:willDisplay:\] + 74** **7** **UIKit** **0x00000001106cdeaa -\[UITableView \_updateVisibleCellsNow:isRecursive:\] + 3168** **8** **UIKit** **0x00000001106ee7e0 -\[UITableView layoutSubviews\] + 176** **9** **UIKit** **0x00000001106787a8 -\[UIView(CALayerDelegate) layoutSublayersOfLayer:\] + 1515** **10** **QuartzCore** **0x00000001179e8456 -\[CALayer layoutSublayers\] + 177** **11** **QuartzCore** **0x00000001179ec667 \_ZN2CA5Layer16layout\_if\_neededEPNS\_11TransactionE + 395** **12** **QuartzCore** **0x00000001179730fb \_ZN2CA7Context18commit\_transactionEPNS\_11TransactionE + 343** **13** **QuartzCore** **0x00000001179a079c \_ZN2CA11Transaction6commitEv + 568** **14** **UIKit** **0x00000001105d1f2c \_afterCACommitHandler + 272** **15** **CoreFoundation** **0x000000010fdd5607 \_\_CFRUNLOOP\_IS\_CALLING\_OUT\_TO\_AN\_OBSERVER\_CALLBACK\_FUNCTION\_\_ + 23** **16** **CoreFoundation** **0x000000010fdd555e \_\_CFRunLoopDoObservers + 430** **17** **CoreFoundation** **0x000000010fdb9b81 \_\_CFRunLoopRun + 1537** **18** **CoreFoundation** **0x000000010fdb930b CFRunLoopRunSpecific + 635** **19** **GraphicsServices** **0x00000001197d4a73 GSEventRunModal + 62** **20** **UIKit** **0x00000001105a9057 UIApplicationMain + 159** **21** **ServiceManagerDev** **0x000000010eb985d7 main + 55** **22** **libdyld.dylib** **0x00000001146df955 start + 1** **23** **???** **0x0000000000000001 0x0 + 1** **)** **libc++abi.dylib: terminating with uncaught exception of type NSException** **(lldb)** Thanks you both. Here it is. I hope the formatting isn't too hard to read.
That might be acceptable but i have to play it enough to like it first. If you dial back the ads and add the IAP you’d probably be good. 
FYI im the author on the main thread. Cross posted here looking for opinion but if this breaks any rules mods feel free to delete.
I’ve finished revamping my website and I’m currently working in my first article about how to improve Anchors.
Just to compare over the years with the same hardware, things have really slowed down. I started in 2009 with a high end desktop hackintosh. I notice that in the last few upgrades that things have really slowed down. Having said that, it's still about a 10 year old system and they only upgrade I've done is dual SSD. Generally, programmers need to be more accurate in their code or modular in their development. Doing a "Edit-&gt;Compile-&gt;Link-&gt;Run" for every little change in code to test how it works, isn't going to work well. You can do that in small test bed projects or playgrounds. Knowing the code, unit testing, etc... are more important. Even if you get a very fast machine, there's still limits.
A few suggestions for you. Maybe I missed it when I first opened, but maybe show the screen that says what to do upon launch. I was a little confused at first, but figured it out quickly. Reduce the ads. I’m terrible at this game and since levels are short, ads are coming way to often (every 10 seconds). Have some way of changing the settings / seeing rules after you have played a round. Currently I see no way to change settings without closing the app and going back. Otherwise it is a cool game!
I don’t know about APFS but Xcode 10 does increase build performance significantly.
Can you post the code? You may have a misplaced braces or similar.
The error is not in this code, it works fine on its own. There must be an error earlier in your code that's affecting this code. Perhaps a misplaced braces or similar.
I have working code that does exactly this. You can declare it like that.
&gt; failed to obtain cell from its data source This means that cellForRowAtIndexPath is returning nil. Have you set the delegates and data source properly? and the reuse Identifier that you used in dequeReusableCell is correct?
Yes you can do that. What’s the error shown on running the code?
If your build time is over a hour, I think the problem is in the project settings.
True, but it's pointless to talk extremes...
There’s no way to exit to the settings or help view once you enter the game.
How would I know?
Ahahahahahaha.
[It already exists](https://github.com/Microsoft/WinObjC), and it's based on the Apple's open source one (which doesn't include the UI libraries, which is why those are incomplete in the Microsoft runtime).
Honestly, while the iOS app store is useful (if only because it's required), I've only used the Mac app store once, and that program is no longer being supported on the App Store and now updates directly from the developer's website. Publishing it yourself, and hosting the .DMG or .PKG on your own server or a file hosting service is really the only good way of distributing software outside of something like Steam or GoG.
In the menubar you go to Product &gt; Archive it will build and compile your app for you. Then select Export &gt; Export without re-signing
You could save info about the match in the background, and then give the player the option to review the stats when they lose. Maybe a player movement path or instant replay. A simple menu system made of a few views, each with a simple banner ad. That way each play through you get at least one banner ad view and the player has the option to track and improve their skills. Give the player the option but also a slight incentive and the ads become somewhat less frustrating. 
You could save info about the match in the background, and then give the player the option to review the stats when they lose. Maybe a player movement path or instant replay. A simple menu system made of a few views, each with a simple banner ad. That way each play through you get at least one banner ad view and the player has the option to track and improve their skills. Give the player the option but also a slight incentive and the ads become somewhat less frustrating. 
Holy shit, this game is almost unplayable in it's current state. You got REALLY greedy with these Ads man. A single round can last just 1-2 seconds and I have to watch a 5-second ad every time I possibly die? Jesus, I'm with everyone else. Uninstalled.
Sorry I'd believe you if you were 300 days old.
yes, just initialize the avPlayerLayer let avPlayerLayer = AVPlayerLayer(player: yourAVPlayerHere) then add it to your view layer: view.layer.insertSubLayer(avPlayerLayer) 
You would need to add a UIImageView to the main view, and set its `image` property to the image you want `let imgView = UIImageView(frame: self.view.frame) imgView.image = &lt;image you want to show&gt; self.view.addSubview(imgView)`
Thanks for the feedback! I'm planning to reduce the ads substantially as well as add a quit button when the player dies in the next update.
Glad you had had fun playing! I'm planning on adding a quit button to go to the menu when the player dies in the next update.
Got it, I'm planning to cut down on the ads to only show every few games in the next update, as well as an option to remove them completely as an in-app purchase.
Thanks for playing! I love the idea of an instant replay after each game, and displaying stats after would make each game more interesting for the player. I'll try and and get this into the next update if i can.
Thank you so much! I just saved my playground on a pen drive and it runs smoothly.
# Swift Literals This question is dealing with the topic of literals in Swift. ## Example You can create a `String` type that represents an `Int` like so: var num = 123 var numString = String(describing: num) As you can see, the value provided for the `numString` variable is the Type followed by parenthesis, which will call the String initializer, passing in a single parameter: the type to be described as a `String`. The result will be this string: `"123"`. However, you could accomplish this in a simpler way using the syntax sugar of literals: var numString = "123" Same result. Simpler syntax. **Note:** Also, as a side note, `var num = 123` is itself using an Int literal. :D ## Array Literals The Udemy tutorial is creating an array by explicitly initializing one: `var tracksArray: [SKSpriteNode]? = [SKSpriteNode]()`. However, similar to strings and ints, Arrays can be created with Array literals. This is what your provided code does: var tracksArray: [SKSpriteNode]? = [] ## Explicit Typing for Empty Array Literals As a final note, array literals can use type inference only when providing a non-empty array literal: var arr1 = ["Hello", "World"] // This will work, creating an array of type: `[String]` var arr2: [String] = [] // This also work, creating an empty array of type: `[String]` var arr3 = [String]() // This also work, creating an empty array of type: `[String]` var arr4 = [] // This will fail, since there is no context for inferring the type the array should contain
Check out the books and bootcamps from [Big Nerd Ranch](bignerdranch.com) 
Can you paste in your code snippet that isn’t working or a link to a video of Playgrounds not working? I’ve not really had this issue before. 
One aspect that should help keep your code clean is the new `CaseIterable` protocol, introduced in Swift 4.2. You can see it here: [https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/caseiterable](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/caseiterable) which will give you the `allCases` variable for free: struct Card { let number: Number enum Number: CaseIterable { case one case two case three } } var allNumbers = Card.Number.allCases // works automatically **Note:** You'll need to be in a version of Xcode that supports Swift 4.2
yes, just initialize the avPlayerLayer `let avPlayerLayer = AVPlayerLayer(player: yourAVPlayerHere)` then add it to your view layer: `view.layer.insertSubLayer(avPlayerLayer)` 
Swift 3 -&gt; 4 not really an issue. Swift 2 -&gt; 4 problem. 
Ok thanks for helping me! :)
I would try to find the Swift 4 version. IDK what the tutorial is about, usually they are specific to a topic like core data or animation or whatever... I would watch some WWDC to see what's new. [https://www.hackingwithswift.com/articles/77/whats-new-in-swift-4-2](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/articles/77/whats-new-in-swift-4-2) [https://www.raywenderlich.com/163857/whats-new-swift-4](https://www.raywenderlich.com/163857/whats-new-swift-4)
The tutorial is about the basics, I basically know nothing of swift or programming languages, so this series is about starting out from the beginning.
In that case, I'd pass. I would recommend the Udemy Ray W and Angela Yu series. They go on sale for about $10/each. The Ray W has a bonus of tons of things like advanced programming stuff. Ray also gives away yesteryear stuff for free. The book from Apple is highly rated (and free).
Ok thanks for helping me out!
Here's Ray's tutorial https://www.raywenderlich.com/173650/raywenderlich-com-ios-11-swift-4-beginners-course-now-udemy Here's his free vault from 2016: He does this every year I think, so the 2017 will be coming up sometime this year I think. https://www.raywenderlich.com/159851/rwdevcon-2016-vault-now-free https://www.udemy.com/user/4b4368a3-b5c8-4529-aa65-2056ec31f37e/ There's another one that does some 20 apps, but I haven't done that one. After a while, they start repeating each other. The Ray W was great for Core Data and networking, Angela has some great Realm stuff like a shared todo list app.
Which is in beta so don’t use it to learn.
Thanks you very much!
If you like ray he has his own website. I would def check it out. I’ve bought several of his books and the great thing about them is that they update them with each new version of swift for free. I don’t buy the paper versions only the digital. You get a pdf, and a version you can load into iBooks if you want to read on an iPad/iPhone as you code on the computer. 
They are 1 different
Alright thanks!
Knowing swift 3 will only help you better understand the small changes made in swift 4 and worst case scenario as you type outdated code Xcode will tell you how to change it to swift 4. 
Lol made me laugh sorry, English isn’t my first language, but I’d like to know what’s the grammar mistake so I won’t do it again :)
Oh ok thanks you very much!
No grammar error, just being facetious. Does some jackass in your life make jokes out of your grammar? Honestly like most ESL people I have come across your grammar seems slightly better then most native speakers. 
it's nothing too much to explain really. essentially if I type in ANY code and hit "run" nothing will happen. The "running Swift" thing at the top will keep processing, but never output any data. The guy up top that responded to me top me how to fix this bug. It's funny, the fact that the first but I ever solved in Xcode was literally debugging Xcode itself.
Both Paul Hudson(Hacking With Swift book and also free online tutorials /u/twostraws ) and Roy Wenderlich(website of same name with lots of free tutorials as well) are great resources for this.
https://www.udemy.com/share/1002fUAEocdllVR34=/ I haven’t took this course but its reviews are good.
In this case, self = uitableviewcell, not the view controller. UITableViewCell doesn’t contain that method. If you want to do what you’re doing with your code, you might want to make the parent view controller a delegate of the table view cell and call it when the tap gesture is picked up. Another less complicated way would be to add a button on top of the label (no text on the button) so that it intercepts the tap, and just link an IBAction to it. 
Ah! Thank you. I will try to implement both methods. 
Just a quick question regarding `protocol`. I'm assuming I would make pass `handleTap(recognizer: UITapGestureRecognizer)` as a protocol function? 
No, in the handle function you’d call something like delegate.labelTapped() (or whatever you name your delegate function) and in the class adopting the protocol you’d instantiate the view controller and present from there. 
here's a sample (cellForRowAtIndexPath needs to have the correct signature, I don't have autocomplete in front of me atm): protocol MyCellHandlerProtocol { func labelTapped(sender:Any?) } class UITableViewCell { var delegate:MyCellHandlerProtocol? func handleTap(recognizer: UITapGestureRecognizer) { delegate.labelTapped(nil) } } class ParentViewController : UITableViewDelegate, UITableViewDataSource { func tableView(cellForRowAtIndexPath) { cell.delegate = self } } extension ParentViewController : MyCellHandlerProtocol { func labelTapped(sender:Any) { let storyBoard : UIStoryboard = UIStoryboard(name: "Main", bundle:nil) let SecondTableView = storyBoard.instantiateViewController(withIdentifier:"testSegue") as? SecondTableView self.presentViewControllerSecondTableView, animated:true, completion:nil) } }
When you reference the array, you can’t step outside it’s bounds so when currentTrack is 5 then 5+1 is 6 and now you have stepped outside the bounds of the array. The optional is for the fact tracks array may be null - not that you are outside the bounds. Perhaps a comparison of currentTrack + 1 to tracksArray.count...
&gt;This mean that the optional unbinding is not working. No, it means that you are going off the end of the array into undefined behavior territory and crashing. You need to do: if let tracksArray = tracksArray, tracksArray.count &gt; currentTrack + 1, let nextTrack = tracksArray[currentTrack + 1].position { (Assuming that `position` returns an `Optional`, if not then remove the last `let`.)
Right click on the project navigator, and click on the file you want to add, and click on the app as target and also select copy items if needed. 
`presentViewCotroller` in a property of `UIViewController`, not of `UITableViewCell.` Try and implement the segue in the Controller itself.
Didn’t download but read the comments. Either have access to several levers with an IAP to unlock the full game, or charge $1 straight up. Nobody like ads. 
I did not know that. Thanks!
I will try that ask if I need any more help. Thanks :)
Why would you make it optional if it has a value on initialization?
Thanks. Is there a reason why you used `nil` here: delegate.labelTapped(nil) I'm running into problems with `nil` (nil is not compatible with expected argument "Any")
Also, your code will be a lot more clean if you turn it from an `if` statement into a `guard` statement and move the else part up. 
I’m passing nil because I had Any as an optional. If you don’t want to make it an optional just pass self. 
I'll add a positive recommend for the Ray Wenderlich site too: [raywenderlich](https://www.raywenderlich.com)
Im using Xcode 9.1. I have the code in two separate files like you suggested the cards and cards+allcards files. I get the error in the allCards method in cards+allcards file on the return line //cards: import Foundation import UIKit struct Card { init(number: Number, color: Color, shading: Shading, shape: Shape) { self.number = number self.color = color self.shading = shading self.shape = shape } let number: Number let shape: Shape let color: Color let shading: Shading enum Number { case one case two case three static var allCases: [Number] = [.one, .two, .three] } enum Shape { case diamond case squiggle case oval static var allCases: [Number] = [.diamond, .squiggle, .oval] } enum Color { case red case purple case green static var allCases: [Number] = [.red, .purple, .green] var attribute : UIColor { switch self { case .red : return .red case .purple : return .purple case .green : return .green } } } enum Shading { case solid case striped case outlined static var allCases: [Number] = [.solid, .striped, .outlined] } } //cards+allCards: import Foundation extension Card : Equatable { static func ==(lhs: Card, rhs: Card) -&gt; Bool { return (lhs.color == rhs.color &amp;&amp; lhs.shape == rhs.shape &amp;&amp; lhs.number == rhs.number &amp;&amp; lhs.shading == rhs.shading) } static let allCards: [Card] = { Number.allCases.flatMap { number -&gt; [Card] in Shape.allCases.flatMap { shape -&gt; [Card] in Color.allCases.flatMap { color -&gt; [Card] in Shading.allCases.map { shading -&gt; Card in return Card(number: number, color: color, shading: shading, shape: shape) }}}}}() } //error: Cannot convert value of type 'Card.Number' to expected argument type 'Card.Color' //p.s I know that init is not required, I added it after the error hoping that was the problem. The error persists with or without that init
Not really! I was a TA for an iOS dev course and I taught in Swift 4, but those with older versions of Xcode were able to use Swift 3 fine. Swift 2 however is a bit too close to Objective-C compared to the others.
I really recommend the Hacking With Swift stuff. Really well written and well explained. The course is free and gets updated with each swift release. 
Lol thanks :)
Alright thanks!
Gonna check it out thanks!
Thanks for the feedback, I just submitted an update that should be live soon that adds a "remove ads" in-app purchase for $1. Hoping that solves most people's issues!
Awesome, thank you for that. I'm a little ashamed to admit that I made something in python to download the entire book and save it for phone use. But with this I think I'm more likely to complete it and actually progress. What are your views on swift for scripting? or maybe using it for general purpose kinda like python?
You've defined your `allCases` as `[Number]` in every `enum`, even when it's for other `enum`. You have to define them as the type they are in. For example: enum Shape { case diamond, squiggle, oval static var allCases: [Number] = [.diamond, .squiggle, .oval] } 
You would think a paid service like AWS would have useful documentation but no...
Yeah! I mean some parts of their documentation and their tutorials are REALLY awesome. They really go into detail and provide a lot of sample apps that you can try. But NONE of the ones I have seen yet, tells you how to do this simple thing, in Swift. I think I have found something that might help me for Objective C but... you know... its Objective C. I don't understand it. I'm just really lost at this point. Having going through like the top 20 google results for about 10 different search terms and only ending up with incomplete solutions or solutions that match but uses different parts of the AWS SDK that I'm not supposed to use. 
Holy fuck how did I miss that. I feel stupid. Thank you soo much for this you’ve been great help :)
trying to learn how to make a 2d game with SpriteKit. Check it out at bagtit.com. It's not finished yet though.
No problem, sometimes the stuff right in front of us is the easiest to miss. Good luck with it!
[Android support would be the least of your concerns.](https://blog.readdle.com/why-we-use-swift-for-android-db449feeacaf) I'd be more concerned about Windows (it technically works, but there's literally no community support) and Linux (works, but good luck getting the runtime on any distro other than Ubuntu). Personally, although I love Swift, I don't think it's in a good state for cross-platform code in a production environment. You're better off with Rust or even C++ (you may hate the idea, but there's a reason C++ is one of the world's biggest languages). As a side note, you might like [Flutter](https://flutter.io) for the UI, at least on mobile (though there is [unofficial desktop support](https://github.com/google/flutter-desktop-embedding/) that [actually works pretty well](https://github.com/rxlabz/flutter_desktop_markdown_reader), and also [this project](https://feather-apps.com/)). 
Obviously I'd prefer folks bought the download edition for offline reading, but ultimately I'm just glad you're busy learning – I hope it's useful to you! :) Swift scripting works great! Check out something like Beak: https://github.com/yonaskolb/Beak
Be kind to your users. If you want a label to be tappable, use a UIButton. That way, you'll get the haptic feedback and accessibility support that your users expect.
If you want to master the language and iOS development from start this playlist help me a lot: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPA-ayBrweUzGFmkT_W65z64MoGnKRZMq To get the maximum out of it I’d recommend doing the assignments just like you’re attending the actual lectures. Each lecture has links to assignments and other material and you’re told when to complete which assignment. It’s a bit slow compared to watching short videos but you get to learn all the concepts really well and the guy is one of the best programmers I’ve seen. 
Amazon's client for iOS is actually just a fork of [apollographql/apollo-ios](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-ios). I think you'll find more help if you join the [Apollo slack channel](https://www.apollographql.com/slack).
I love both Rust and Swift, but I think the former does not have stable enough libraries for the type of project you want to do, and the latter is mainly focused on Apple platforms. In your position, for my back end, I would use Scala, with the Akka actor framework.
&gt;Android support would be the least of your concerns. The link sound interesting but look like depending on hacks :). &gt;As a side note, you might like [Flutter](https://flutter.io/) for the UI Yeah, sound good too. I wish to not use dart but depending in how hard the integration (with my backend) could be a viable path long-term
It’s very fun. I downloaded it, played it for a few minutes and uninstalled it. Ads every time you die is too much 
&gt; The link sound interesting but look like depending on hacks :). I didn't say it would be concern-free; I just said it'd have least concerns out of all the platforms. 😉
I've used both Rust and Swift for server-related tasks in relatively complicated setups/environments. I'd take Rust over Swift in a heartbeat right now. Which is annoying, because I'd _like_ to use Swift here, but the support just isn't there.
Yeah, I think Apple is dropping the ball. With good enough support, most people that like the OSX/iOS environment will have less possibility to switch over or use something else.
Thank you so much! This might be the breakthrough i needed! I just couldnt understand why i couldnt find anything. 
&gt; it means that you are going off the end of the array into undefined behavior territory It’s not undefined behavior in Swift. It’ll just be: &gt; crashing 
About once a year I check in to see if Swift on Linux has gotten anywhere, and am always disappointed that it hasn't, and it's clearly not a priority. It seems like the devs feel their work is done with it working on Ubuntu and don't care about the issues with other distros. I use CentOS on my servers and would love to use Swift for everything, but it looks like it's not going to happen, at least anytime soon. I want to say "yum install swift-dev" and have it just work. Or double-click "Swift Installer.exe" on Windows and have it just work. I'm tired of all the fragile hacks and half-successes some people have clawed their way to. I don't understand why it's so difficult.
Agreed. But my suspicion is that once Swift gets ABI stability you will see it bloom. Why put in the work now if things are constantly changing?
Hmm, true. Well, I'm not certain 100% that it will result in a crash. It does seem like they always result in one but I put undefined behavior in my post simply because I couldn't find a guarantee one way or the other. No matter what, you're gonna have a bad day.
Swift guarantees that behavior for standard library types that don't have Unsafe in the name (I believe it will try to do so for Unsafe* as well where possible, but doesn't make guarantees there).
I disagree. I've got this code in production currently: ```swift #if swift(&gt;=4.2) #else // MARK: - internal protocol CaseIterable { associatedtype AllCases: Collection where AllCases.Element == Self static var allCases: AllCases { get } } internal extension CaseIterable where Self: Hashable { static var allCases: [Self] { return [Self](AnySequence { () -&gt; AnyIterator&lt;Self&gt; in var raw = -1 return AnyIterator { raw += 1 return withUnsafeBytes(of: &amp;raw) { $0.load(as: Self.self) } } }) } } #endif ```
I assumed something like this but couldn't find definitive proof of it anywhere I looked. If you come across that guarantee could you post it?
Yes. In fact, there are answers to all questions. Some answers are right, some are wrong, some are easy, some are hard... Are you asking is someone else has answered these questions and published their answers for you? ... yea, IDK.
Right, you're mimicking what will happen in 4.2 and defining it out when you actually use 4.2. This means you can use *similar* code for production but not actual beta code. My code is effectively doing the same thing, I just didn't take the time to map it out like you've done here since I was keeping it simple for someone new to the language. Sometimes you have to do this and it will work pretty smoothly, assuming that they make no changes when they release the final version of 4.2. Honestly, I'd rather skip the `#if` altogether and have warnings come up when the final version of 4.2 is released so I can trim out the dead code instead of leaving versioning all over the place.
Step 1: spam a YouTube video over a couple of dozen subs and hope it generates a ton of views.
I think it’s more like, Swift is still in its early stages and is not yet focused on cross-platform usage. 
[Intro to App Development with Swift: Everyone Can Code - Teacher Guide](https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/intro-to-app-development-with-swift/id1118577558)
I understand that, but is almost the same with rust, right? 
Saw this the other day while integrating Twilio in a new project. Cool stuff.
If you're using admob you don't even need to do an update, just change the frequency cap on the admob site.
Thanks for this. Didn't not know this was possible, and saves a lot of time!
Thanks for playing! Just changed ad frequency to be far lower, update should be live in a day or two, hope that helps.
https://old.reddit.com/r/swift/comments/8xgxz7/why_is_swift_slow/e236r5z/
Haha. I had this. Bottom corner. Hold play button and switch to manual. Works a treat. 
Thanks man, I will try it
It keeps going over to automatically run every time I reset. I should change it down here right? Link image: [https://ibb.co/n6gVuJ](https://ibb.co/n6gVuJ)
 extension Array { public subscript (safe index: Int) -&gt; Element? { return index &gt;= 0 &amp;&amp; index &lt; count ? self[index] : nil } } With this you can do `if let thing = things[safe: index]` and get `thing` if `index` is in bounds and `nil` if it isn't.
I may be wrong here as I've never used playgrounds, but since this is just console displayed stuff you may need to click the icon below the code that is a box with a triangle. This should bring up the console to display the text. 
Well, apparently not, since the consensus seems to be that Rust is better for that area yet. 
Yep
Hey, we still don't have RSS, but we have it on our roadmap. Thanks for the feedback.
Some code-golf: `print([optionalValueX, optionalValueY, optionalValueZ, optionalValueA].compactMap { $0 }.reduce(0,+))`
Also not optional binding. ;-)
This doesn't really answer your question, but anyway... when Xcode tries to troll me especially hard and playgrounds just don't do what they should, I just create a command line application project. It comes with a super simple main.swift file that just contains `print("Hello, World!")`. Copy-paste your playground code there and run it. Command line application projects, unlike playgrounds, run super reliably. On the other hand, it doesn't come with the neat features that playgrounds have (when they work).
Nope, but you had already explained that :-)
lol, true. It is neat functional-style programming.
Yes, change it and make sure you save it.
THANK YOU! I greatly appreciate your feedback and setting me straight on what's going on here. I've edited the post to avoid confusion going forward. 
Glad to help. It's a great feature, I use it all the time. You can do it in other control statements too, like `guard`, `where`, `case`.
That’s a solution I didn’t expect! That’s for sharing that..! Definitely learned something there.
Ok thanks!
If you're gonna ask for a code review, at least be more specific with what part of the code or what aspect of it that you want people to review. Do you just want us to read the code and say "looks good to me"?
Thank you. I guess I will just finish this implementation for studying purposes.
Sure. To each there own. :)
I am not able to provide constructive feedback to your resume so here's +1 download for Hibernate.
You can only access folderURL from “Do” block as it’s a local variable for that block. You cannot return its value outside the block. 
Ah! Thank you. 
Yes! You need to change a few things. Change Functions return type to “URL?”, return folderURL in do block and return nil in catch block.
Thank you!
Are there any good VS Code extensions for Swift code completions?
Is `LablesTableView` your view controller or your view?
There really aren't parties interested in working on it. Somebody needs to want Swift on Linux for it. There has to be a useful business reason for a company to pay millions of dollars a year for a few toolchain engineers to work on Swift for Android/Linux/Windows.
You say you’re conforming to both the delegate and data source, but with just this one method, you’re not implementing all of the required methods. In your error in Xcode, it should have the option to insert the method stubs that you haven’t implemented yet. 
It's my viewController. 
Hi, but I'm implementing two methods. Most videos I've seen are implementing these two methods which I'm implementing: `cellForRowAt indexPat` and `numberOfRowsInSection`. Am I implementing them incorrectly? 
I feel like a lot of people on this sub just skip over Apple's own superb documentation... [https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/TheBasics.html](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/TheBasics.html)
Sounds like you should be making a website, not an app for 5 platforms.
No, thank you for the awesome service ;)
Did you set the delegate and datasource either in the viewDidLoad or storyboard?
Github 
This seems obvious now. Appreciate the response. Are there any other common methods?
It's probably Github or any other git services like Gitlab or Bitbucket. 
...or a git repo hosted on one of the company's own servers.
This is great info, really appreciate the tips. Thanks!
GitHub.. bitbucket...gitlab 
It’s like that. Nothing to do, it’s just bugged like many other parts of Xcode.
lol, then how should i develop an ios app? does intellj + appcode sound good?
No, use Xcode. The IDE is good. Has some long unresolved bugs here and there that can make you question Apple commitment to it, but for the most part is good and you will probably not run into them right away. 
For Playground: Leave on run manually if in Playground. Whenever it hangs, try going to activity monitor and force quit com.apple.CoreSimulator.CoreSimulatorService If that doesn't work, restarting will be your best friend. If that still doesn't work then honestly just create a new throwaway single view application project and put whatever you were making in Playground in your viewDidLoad() 
What essexlfc5 said! Learn about version control and how to use command line with these tool, it will be an invaluable skill!
Nah you need to use xcode anyways for UI and submitting apps so it's just more RAM used. Also AppCode has pretty much all the same bugs because it's mostly just jetbrains over SourceKit, which is what makes XCode buggy. Also XCode 9 was much more buggy when it first came out, I recommend not updating to 10 right away. I use appcode, but only because it's similar to android studio (jetbrains based). 
Have you looked at UIPageViewController?
What's the benefit of doing it via UIPageViewController vs container views?
Force quit and reopen again 
Every time I reread the docs, I pick up something new. This is a classic example. The comma is new to me in an if statement. I missed it somehow in the Basics section and ran across it later on in an example in the documentation on Optional Chaining. 
I had the same problem. Then via online search I found out that if the iCloud is activated and the project gets saved to the Desktop, the XCode might kinda get buggy because it is trying to save and to iCloud as well. Or something like that. But ever since I have turned off the iCloud, my XCode hasn’t stuck at all. I’m not sure if the exact reason though. Let’s hope I haven’t jinxed it.
Elements has an SQLite wrapper library, so you ezctally *can* use it with the same API from different platforms: https://github.com/remobjects/ElementsSQLite/blob/master/SQLite.pas
[Permanent](https://help.github.com/articles/getting-permanent-links-to-files/#press-y-to-permalink-to-a-file-in-a-specific-commit) GitHub links: * [remobjects/ElementsSQLite/.../**SQLite.pas** (master → 1ef63d5)](https://github.com/remobjects/ElementsSQLite/blob/1ef63d5a594409150453648dc67f15328142545f/SQLite.pas) ---- [^delete](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=GitHubPermalinkBot&amp;subject=deletion&amp;message=Delete reply e2jbhu1.)
Very nice! I'll be sure to download it again and give it a try! Happy cake day! :) 
You get a viewcontroller where you can put some extra stuff. Plus I find container views a bit messy. It's not much, IMHO. But it might be right for you.
Don't do it. Continue to work in a normal job and learn programming in your free time. Unless you enroll in a degree program you really won't learn programming any faster. It's very tough to motivate yourself solo learning and find the resources quickly enough to justify quitting a regular job.
If you are an intern, don’t be afraid to ask, you are there to learn, and you should have senior devs willing to teach. 
As someone whose recently learned Swift and switched careers I completely agree that you should not quit and jump careers unless you’ve got substantial savings. Even if you get a first job, it likely won’t pay enough the first year to make up for your early losses and instead it’ll likely be more stressful than is healthy when you’re trying to learn something that’s quite hard. Also, what I’ve found is that once I got past the basics, my rate of learning decreased dramatically, I no longer learn at the rate in which I code but instead it’s related to the time I dedicate to studying, reading documentation, software design, which is all stuff I do throughout the day so there isn’t much more time for pure learning now that I’m a full time dev than I’ve had in the past. What I would recommend instead is to build an app. Come up with an idea, hopefully something basic but that still touches all the critical components that an employer would look for. So it should be well-architected, well-formatted code, with UI, animations, and networking. You don’t have to do this but it helps a lot: I recommend you actually launch it on the App Store. The app can be the concrete thing you’re working towards, and a sort of milestone at which point to start re-evaluating whether this is something you still want to do, and also a resume tool to help you get interviews.
Someone posted this exact same problem less than 12 hours before you did. Take some time to read the forum before you post, this issue gets posted sometimes several times a week so there's plenty of examples for you to read about.
I’m sort of in the field already in that I’m a web developer in the marketing team. The company I work for actually has an app. Perhaps I can work my way in there somehow? Who knows. 
Great advice here.
Hey. Thanks for the advice. I really appreciate it. I indeed have an idea for an app and the goal is to get an MVP on the App Store by the end of the year. . It involves some AR. I’m doing all the basic learning first and after a Udemy bootcamp. After I’ll get some sort of Repo going on Github. But you’re right. It won’t hurt to build the app at all. 
A ERP is a complex beast, that \*need a website\* but is only \*one of the many things it need\*. If you read the question, all is about: Everything is around RDBMS, data processing &amp; integration, workflows, business logic, scripting, REST and similar. That is not solvable as a website/webapi, are the components for MAKE ONE. Plus, I need to do several utilities and sub-programs that run elsewhere. For example, one of the unique things we do is integrate with many other ERPs and accounting packages, where the integrator must be installed inside the customers network (that rarely is in a cloud).
Yeah, I'm aware of that. But then what about PostgreSQL, Sql Server, Firebid (all I need now) and rest clients, http servers, etc? I already test elements and report back some things but it only solve a part of the problem, no the core one. Of course, I plan to use it (or python or nim?) for glue things later... if possible.
i downloaded the new beta of xcode and it seems much more stable just avoid infinite loops 
Switch it to 'manual'
Don’t quit. Continue with that habit. An acquired habit is more valuable than having more free time. 
Scrollview on top for the header, and bellow it your CollectionView (maybe a tableview is enough for you). To make everything scroll just dispatch the scroll events from one to the other.
Build your first app and release it to the app store then Apple for jobs. That's what I did :)
I spent about 2 years doing what you're doing now. I was in a dead end tech job and spent all my free time learning new tech. It sucks, but you have to realize that knowing how to make an app does NOT get you a job. iOS jobs are asking for 3\~5 years exp and they are very geo specific. iOS is one part of the mobile platform and it's only a part of that, meaning there's still full stack. Read some of the posts about people with a degree and/or apps completed and still can't get into the job market.
I continued working (well, in my case studying, but it doesn't matter) in my day-to-day job until I got a programming job offer. I suggest you do the same.
How long did it take you? Out of curiosity what area did you move away from? 
very interested, this is combining all my favourite modern architecture trends. From a surface read, this seems to be tackling a lot of issues I have with other modern architecture paradigms as well. a couple notes: I find the routes a little difficult to read. I might need extra explanation for their usefulness beyond the demo... one more question, embedding Rx seemed unnecessary, would your data flow diagram on the GitHub page, showing the defined separation of concerns, not work without rx? 
I obviously realise it’s more. Understanding design patterns etc. But yes an app is part of the bigger picture.. 
I’m also interested in this. I translated an Italian thread here on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/italy/comments/8ozvfe/apple_developer_academy_di_napoli_commenti/) saying that the level of difficulty is not very high. I personally applied for the both the standard and the Enterprise program and this week the results of both assessments are being shared. I am a software engineering student in The Netherlands and I already have programming experience. I hope the Enterprise program is challenging enough for me. Really would like to hear other experiences! 
Turn off auto run, and that will solve your issue
You can learn on an iPad but I would suggest using your MacBook. Xcode is a nice IDE to learn on and it’s not accessible on the iPad. You can learn a little through playgrounds but you can’t do everything. I use my iPad sometimes on the go and use a code editing app to do some things but I always end up having to remote in to my Mac mini to get a lot done. I wish I had the MacBook instead of my iPad Pro half the time.
Whatever you do, please file a [radar](https://bugreport.apple.com/web/).
I wouldn't recommend buying an iPad solely for development, as they're limited in what they can do. You're able to use playgrounds on them but you could pickup a lot of that knowledge from reading the Swift documentation on your iPhone. There are a few apps that cover the basics as well for iPhone. Stick to using your MacBook with Xcode so that you're comfortable using the IDE. A lot of the time you won’t get familiar with concepts unless you’re building apps with them. 
If you already have programming experience you can learn on the job! I literally had zero swift experience when I first started as an iOS dev. You should ask your work if you can pick up little tasks on the app here and there while still mostly doing webdev. 
That could get political. I think I’d first need to show them that I’m capable of publishing my own app with users and competent in programming. 
You don't know unless you ask. Just tell them you like swift and would be interested in helping with the app. If they say no they say no. 
Is there any alternative to using Xcode if you want to write and compile Swift 4?
I found this link on another reddit post and hopefully you'll find it useful if you end up using github. [https://medium.com/flawless-app-stories/useful-git-commands-for-everyday-use-e1a4de64037d](https://medium.com/flawless-app-stories/useful-git-commands-for-everyday-use-e1a4de64037d)
Hi! Thanks for your nice feedback. We really appreciate it. Routes are the concept of having a type describing a navigation path, for example it could be to navigate from one screen to another or showing an alert or even doing nothing. We extracted this concept to allow the ViewModel to throw certain events, in this case navigate to routes and the Route itself can define how the transition looks like. You can execute an error route for example and change the actual way to display the error without touching the View or ViewModel again. E.g. switching from doing nothing, to an alert, to an own view controller. And yes, it would totally be possible to do the same thing without rx. We use RxSwift quite heavily in our project and we wanted the library to give us observables for the actual transition state. This allows us do things like disabling a button after pressing it until the transition to the new screen is actually done.
I would firstly explore if a transition would be possible in your current place of work to move into a new role that targets swift or is closer to what you are after. If this is not possible I would have a quick google and find some job specs to get an idea of what would be involved / expected. Gear your learning to what you find and try to build a number of small apps which touch on single / focused parts of the specs. This will give you a deeper understanding to a number of different smaller requirements without overwhelming you. When you are feeling more confident I would then look to build an app which would touch on as many aspects as possible, plugging all the bits together. If you finish the larger app and are still interested then you have a small portfolio of apps you can bring up in discussion for interviews. This will show your dedication, willingness to learn and the approach you took to get to your end goal. It will also give you smaller goals to aim towards throughout your learning process, hopefully keeping you motivated. Give a few interviews a go after this to see how they go and use them all as a learning environment to get a feel for what you are moving into to see if it still appeals to you. Take away the parts which you struggled on and gear your learning towards those points and try again. You just need to weigh up salary vs satisfaction. As mentioned you may have to seek a more junior role to begin with which may come with a pay hit, just make sure you are comfortable with the move you are making!
What happens when you build the project? What if you clean it first (CMD-K)? Does it build in either case?
IDK why someone would down vote a response like this, but I'm pretty much done trying to offer help to people. How exactly is any part of your realization obvious to anyone reading this? Anyway, do what ever you want, I'm tired of offering insight just to have cry babies down vote it.
hmm I understand, if you wanted to maximize the adoption I would consider doing something like (Moya)[https://github.com/Moya/Moya] does for their rx modules, basically they keep the rx components as a separate import that has a dependancy on the base moya module. this will make it non-rx dependant. btw im a big fan of rx, but I believe in keeping these modules as close to 0 external dependancy as possible to reduce the required knowledge to ramp up on them. I think the ideas of routes are good, but they seem tightly coupled to UIKit, other ideas of "routing" in other architectures keep transition animation at a higher abstraction, like more business logic-y, rather than defining transitions. In a perfect world my business logic is one concern and my animations are another, allowing me to reuse biz logic between different targets (mac and iOS apps are a good example), but use different transition helpers depending for each, does that make sense? a possible solution to this concern would be renaming the idea of routing as you have it to something that reflects the idea that you mean UI routing or separating the animation aspects out to another concept, but that being: said I see why you've grouped that way, and can't immediately think of a way to implement what I'm talking about. also if you build out too much separation of concerns you end up with something like VIPER, which I'm not a huge fan of for beginners, so more classes and separation isn't always a good thing ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ 
Thanks, please let me know what you think (update is live now).
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2OZ07fklur8&amp;list=PLMRqhzcHGw1ZqzYnpIuQAn2rcjhOtbqGX](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2OZ07fklur8&amp;list=PLMRqhzcHGw1ZqzYnpIuQAn2rcjhOtbqGX)
Loved the diagram. What tool did you use?
Thank you. I did in the viewdidload function. Ive updated my OP with the entire code for the viewcontroller. Sorry about that. 
I get build failed even if I precede it with Command K. I've updated the OP with entire code. Thank you. 
I am leaning Swift with Xcode and I have been experiencing the same issues. I was told to try deleting my DerivedData files and restarting Xcode might fix the issue.
Implement `func numberOfSections(in: UITableView) -&gt; Int`. Just return 1 if your table view only has one section
&gt; func numberOfSections(in: UITableView) -&gt; Int Thank you. Just tried it, but I'm still getting the same error :(
Yeah I’ll start attending some meet ups in the company and give it a go. I think they’d take me more seriously if I actually had something to show...backed with knowledge. 
Also, with Xcode 9, open Activity Monitor and force quit the process `homed` which can hog the CPU. The latest Xcode 10 beta seems to have fixed this.
Yeah you're totally right about that. We thought a lot about how could abstract the concept of routes and ended up with the current solution. We hope to find a better abstraction without making the whole concept too complicated for beginners. Extracting the Rx part is a good idea. We will take it into account for a new version. Thank you so much for your feedback!
&gt;Actually we used keynote and exported the diagram as an image of the slide. Keynote is a wonderful tool to quickly create blueprints.
Cheers. Good luck. Look forward to seeing progression. I have my own version of a coordinator that I've been working on that I will borrow some concepts for. 
Swift programmers are in demand so that gives you some leverage but generally you need to demonstrate at leas some programming skill. Unfortunately web development isn't often that (I'm not sure what you are implying with that term as it has various meanings). If what you currently do doesn't demonstrate programming skills, which is kinda implied by your comment, then you may have a larger hurdle. In any event as I say Swift skills are in demand. Your educational background wasn't mentioned but that can also be a factor. Any college level computer science courses can be a positive. If you don't have a post high school education I would be highly inclined to not consider you in a position as a developer. However that doesn't mean I would completely dismiss a candidate and would rather see if they were willing to go to school part time. To put it bluntly it really isn't ideal to try to teach people the basics of computer science as on the job training. That knowledge is far better learned in school. AS for quitting, it sounds like you don't have a choice here with responsibilities beyond the norm. So don't! If you can't work out a solution with your current employer, stick with the job while you try to get at least 2 years of computer science education under your belt. Make sure the program you register into is well regarded, there are far too many dodgy computer science programs out there. The problem here is local offerings, if you need to move to get into a decent university then a whole bunch of other questions crop up.
Have your written code in any well regard programming language at all? If not you likely will get some resistance, however don't let that stop you from pursuing something that meets people part way.
I have a degree in cs and design. Tbh I taught myself during university. I know people who are completely self taught without CS degree... dont ever try and scare people like that. But I respect the comment 
What do you count as well regarded programming language. JS/PHP. Nothing will stop this hype train. 
Part of the problem with building an app, especially on your own, is that they can often be crap code that really isn't something you can market yourself with. This is certainly true with almost anybody that has entered into the field, your first app is often a bit of an embarrassment after you get more experience under the belt. If you do reveal the code to a potential employer it is usually a good idea to focus on what you learned along the way and be able to point out mistakes in code structure and so forth. In other words be able to demonstrate that you are learning. This is where the university approach tends to lead to better or maybe I should say quicker skills development as if you are smart you will meet in a study group doing code reviews for each assignment. Contrast this with learning on your own where you can easily develop bad habits. These days there is one positive for the individual and that is the internet and forums or sites focused on programmer development.
Can an Ipad help you learn to code, it is possible but maybe not in the way you think. 1. IPad is not a good place to code, especially without an external keyboard. Beyond that there are limited programming environments to allow much of any learning. 2. A Mac Book actually supports a huge number of programming environments. There is Apples Xcode of course but you can leverage a number of IDE's, editors and other programming tools. Mac OS is actually a great developers platform so you are good to go in that regard. 3. IPad can help you code if your goal is to target iOS and the iPad. This simply because you can test code there. You didn't mention if your goal is to build apps for iOS devices or if you are trying to develop more general programming skills so this could be important to you. 4. What iPad is very good at in my opinion is providing a second screen to support your Mac. This could be especially useful on a Mac Book with its small screen. Before I busted my iPad early this year i would use it to display API's and such basically as a reference manual. Prop the iPad right next to the mains screen and you have a unobstructed view of the information related to your programming task. I say information because I have had reference manuals and algorithms displayed to help with code implementation. For the little bit of programming I do this is perhaps the biggest use of iPad I've had when it comes to code development. The nice thing here is you can have local stored information or the cloud at your your finger tips. Great for PDF's downloaded from some chip manufactures web site. Now given the above, no you don't need an iPad unless you are intending to write iPad software. Item 4 above is the only use case that an iPad has positively impacted me. 
as your questions is how can iPad help you learn to code, the answer is using swift playgrounds. swift playgrounds is an iPad only app that will teach you the fundamentals of code and swift as a language. while the other comments are correct about actually coding, iPad is great for learning.
There’s an app for Swift Playgrounds that has a bunch of built in courses. If you’re brand new then definitely go for it. But if you want to actually build apps then you need to get Xcode for Mac.
Are you talking about actually using the iPad to code on? Or are you talking about buying a physical device to use as a target for testing? If you're asking about having a physical target, it helps a lot. There's something magical about actually seeing your code running on a physical device. Don't shell out cash for a new one though, I'd recommend buying an older used "base model" off eBay. I use my iMac Pro for my dev work, and I have an old iPad Mini with 16 GB on my desk which I use only for testing. I want to pick up an iPhone 7 at some point but I just haven't gotten around to it. I do have access to my daughters' iPhones, an 8 and an 8+, but I don't bother them until I'm farther down the line to "Alpha Testing." Some things are just way easier to test on a physical device - rotation, gestures, etc. With the advent of Mohave supporting IOS apps on the Mac, there's going to be even more issues to consider moving forward in a few more months. Always fun! 
I just had my interview with them, it was only 5-10 minutes and he told me to keep an eye on the website for the results. I think you're right that the barrier of entry is pretty low. I only spent 15min on the test (with no proior programming experience!) and ranked top 50, while most other students used the full hour of the session?? I did ask what work students can expect to leave the academy with. They said their focus is really on just the basic coding concepts, but more importantly the soft skills involved with collaboration. So it seems to be more like socializing lessons that happen to be about coding than straightforward learning.
this is just awesome.
[removed]
We have a ton of devices to test against. We can't have one of everything but try to have one of the low and high end devices at least. I still use my iPhone 4S for testing. My iPad 3. iPod Touches are good. When we get personal devices we try to mix it up a bit. If you have a tvOS app you'll need an AppleTV. If you have a watchOS app you'll need at least one watch. In a pinch you can use Amazon's Device Farm to run your apps on specific iOS devices you don't own. We actually released two apps before the hardware became available - first an iPad app and later a watch app. The simulators worked, though it's really better and less nerve-racking to have actual hardware to test against. 
Back when I was programming for IOS I had one ipad and one iphone That was great for what I was doing at the time but if you intend to support your software on as many Apple products as possible you will need as many devices as possible. Within reason anyways, it really comes down to how widely spread your app sales will be. If you only have 10,000 users you can get away with far less test hardware.
I'll tell you how I did it. Whether it directly relates to you or not I am not certain. I did similar to you and just started learning on my own. I had dabbled in ObjC and wrote some small test apps (never published) but didn't really get into iOS development until the Swift beta was released. As soon as I used it I knew Swift iOS development was my next career path. I spent two years learning Swift and writing several apps. Most of them have never seen the light of day, but I did publish a couple of them (I have have since removed them for various reasons). Once I felt that I could develop in Swift and had a pretty good understanding of developing in iOS (including, but not limited to, understanding the application lifecycle, basic architecture, different methods of showing and gathering information including labels, buttons, table views, date pickers, alert view controllers, nav controllers, etc.), I started talking with job recruiters. The fact that I had 25+ years of development experience already in various languages and platforms surely helped me and I landed a one year contract within a couple of months. I could have gotten something sooner, but I was specifically looking for a longer term contract or perm job because I was leaving a 15 year career at large outsourcing company (and, no, they did not have iOS jobs). It was actually a pay raise of about $30K/year, but there were major trade-offs. No insurance of any kind (pretty typical for a contract), and the job was on-site out-of-state. But, I felt that the trade-offs were well worth it for the job that I was hoping would help me land future work as an iOS dev. I had a serious case of feeling under-qualified when I started, but I was working with an amazing team. The lead dev knew immediately that I wasn't really a senior iOS dev as the job had called for, but also didn't care because he felt that I knew more than enough to keep up and learn quickly. They ended up offering me a perm job after three months, but I didn't want to move so I stayed on as a contractor until the year-long contract was up. I now have a perm job back in my home state working on a very interesting iOS project and have several years of iOS experience to fall back on. The TL;DR here is that once you feel that you have the Swift skills necessary (and I would highly recommend following through on that plan to get an app or two out the door first because you need something to show during interviews), then talk to the recruiters. Do a few interviews. That will tell you were your strengths and weaknesses are. Work on those and then keep trying. Don't leave your current job until you land the next one. And be picky! You already have a job, so don't take the first Swift job to come along. Find a job that you think you can learn from and do not get into a place where you are the only iOS dev. You will need a team (even if it is just a couple of people) to learn from in order to grow. Good luck.
Thanks Chris, your advice makes sense. Can you think of a time where something worked on an older phone but not on the most recent? Was it a layout issue or something more evil? 
funny! I'd rather see somebody learn C++ than those two disgusting languages. If you leanr C++ well you actually demonstrate having a little something upstairs which then becomes applicable with a whole host of languages.
stackoverflow.com
Yeah the comment came about because I do know self taught programmers. Often it isn't a pretty sight to see as such I would avoid them in a hiring process unless they could demonstrate exceptional skills and clean code. On the other hand I've seen programmers with sound college degrees that couldn't get data out of a serial port so education doesn't guarantee anything. The difference is that a graduate from a quality Comp Sci program ought to have a broad exposure to different and modern technologies. Often a self taught programmer will have focused on learning a language and nothing else, ending up with a vary narrow field of view when it comes to knowledge. In any event I'm not trying to scare people, what I'm trying to say is that the quickest way to becoming employable by the widest array of possible employers is to work on a CS degree or something similar. Depending upon your location you might be getting job offers before you even complete the degree program. The education and maybe more importantly the initiative demonstrated, will go a long ways to give one access to the better jobs out there. Many organizations simply have a policy of degree required and that is a cold hard fact. A degree simply means move avenues available to the potential programmer.
The most recent example was the release of the iPhone X. It required layout tweaks for the screen changes and LocalAuthentication changes for the switch from TouchID to FaceID. 
Can't you just use the UISegmentedController to change the data that is used to display the cells to the proper type and reload the cells? Maybe I'm missing something, but what I see is as simple as having 4 types of cells (corresponding to the UISegmentedController segments) and when the user changes the selected segment the UICollectionView is told that it's data has changed and it needs to reload based on the new type. Here is a super quick and dirty \`UICollectionViewController\` that does what I'm talking about. In my storyboard I've defined 4 cells matching the \`reuseIdentifier\` that I've got here, and a header view that has a segmented control that links to my \`@IBAction\`. As you can see I just change the \`reuseIdentifier\` then tell my collection view to \`reloadData\`. class CollectionViewController: UICollectionViewController { var reuseIdentifier = "post" override func viewDidLoad() { super.viewDidLoad() } override func didReceiveMemoryWarning() { super.didReceiveMemoryWarning() // Dispose of any resources that can be recreated. } @IBAction func segmentValueChanged(_ sender: UISegmentedControl) { switch sender.selectedSegmentIndex { case 0: reuseIdentifier = "post" case 1: reuseIdentifier = "reply" case 2: reuseIdentifier = "like" case 3: reuseIdentifier = "media" default: reuseIdentifier = "post" } collectionView?.reloadData() } // MARK: UICollectionViewDataSource override func numberOfSections(in collectionView: UICollectionView) -&gt; Int { // #warning Incomplete implementation, return the number of sections return 1 } override func collectionView(_ collectionView: UICollectionView, numberOfItemsInSection section: Int) -&gt; Int { // #warning Incomplete implementation, return the number of items return 100 } override func collectionView(_ collectionView: UICollectionView, cellForItemAt indexPath: IndexPath) -&gt; UICollectionViewCell { let cell = collectionView.dequeueReusableCell(withReuseIdentifier: reuseIdentifier, for: indexPath) // Configure the cell return cell } override func collectionView(_ collectionView: UICollectionView, viewForSupplementaryElementOfKind kind: String, at indexPath: IndexPath) -&gt; UICollectionReusableView { return collectionView.dequeueReusableSupplementaryView(ofKind: kind, withReuseIdentifier: "header", for: indexPath) } }
I made a new project and copy pasted your code and I can get it to build properly after commenting out some of your custom stuff. Maybe your copy of Xcode is broken? I've had to restart mine after leaving the computer on for days because it started being buggy.
This is mostly true though I wouldn't say university is necessary, certainly would help but it's not a must. If OP doesn't have time or money to go to university, I would instead suggest that they find someone here or on one of the iOS slack communities to help them review their architecture and code before and after the app is written. I've also seen others get the app to a functioning state, then rewriting the whole thing. It's a bit painful but often necessary for your first app.
The screen size/layout on the iPhone X definitely caused some headaches. Larger iPads messed up our splash screen a bit. The iPhone X and Plus phones also use the @3x graphics while other ones use @2x ones, so problems can crop up there. We probably had issues going from 32-bit to 64-bit devices, but they're all 64-bit these days, except for the watch. Most of the problems have been OS rather than hardware related, so usually we keep an old device on the oldest supported OS and update the newer devices to the newest OS. For example, Apple added plist requirements for NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription and NSAppTransportSecurity along the way. You can always use beta testers if you don't have enough hardware too, although you'll want to ensure that they're really running the app. 
&gt;Creating a LinkedList in Swift (just in case) I really don’t think that’s something that belongs in your list of things you’ll **have** to be prepared to talk about. 
💤💤💤💤💤💤💤💤💤
Hmm interesting... What is your background? Do you have any prior programming skills? If so, are you going the academy anyway? 
You’re right. My mistake. If Xcode is still complaining, then maybe have it provide protocol stubs and see what might be missing. Your two methods look correct, but you may need to still implement another. 
I’m in the same boat but a couple years (intermittently, very) in. I’d be willing to chat some here and there. Message me for discord info.
**Here’s a cover letter I used that got me a phone interview:** &gt;M entire career *M?? Who's M? We like mysterious people, let's call this guy!* lesson no.0, proofread your stuff! HR people mostly don't know jackshit about the industry, so they prefilter you by your *grammer*...
Thanks a lot! We really appreciate your feedback and we are eager to make this library even better 😊
I have a bachelor's in design, with no prior programming skills. I tried to mess around with arduino stuff before but didn't stick with it long enough to learn anything. As of now, my only real experience with code is from the study material they provided for the test.... lmao. If I get in I will probably go.. i haven't been able to get a relevant job since i graduated college last year. How about you? What did you think of the test? Have you interviewed yet?
Each Job offer is a whole world. So the only real good advice is fit the experience they ask for, and even: If you don't get the OK from the asigned lead programmer in charge of evaluate you, because anything (yes, anything that he think can not be avoided), do not blame yourself. Code tests are not fair and out if production reality. I've face a 30m test about writing a swift algorithm of sorting city names alphabumerically + some space conditions. Also any kind of framework they may ask for. I had like 2 year core data project, nowdays I have to check back why I get faults or avoid duplicates. I have use almost every cocoa framework but I barely remember specific things, plus how different is from the last time I wrote something. 
I have a table view which has a collection view inside its every cell. There are a few tutorials out there that I've checked out regarding drag and drop, but still cannot figure out how to move a collection view cell to another collection view (I can only rearrange the cells inside the same collection view). I'm stuck at the moment, so any help would be greatly appreciated! 
Well. No corps-platform lan gauge is going to give you *all* the abstraction wrappers you need, without needing to do some work yourself. I doubt Apple Swift, when it ever becomes usable on moe that just Apple's platform, is going to provide PostreSQL or SQL Server APIs ;). HTTP (and general TCP) support, Elements has via Internet Pack (https://github.com/remobjects/InternetPack), and via the lightweight "Http" class in Elements RTL. Wrappers for SQL Server &amp; Co *could* of course be done (someone just has to do em — but. that's the case with any other solution you pick, too ;)
Consider joining [https://discord.gg/9zF2pt](https://discord.gg/9zF2pt)
I have a degree. I’ve worked with MVC before using Ruby on Rails. Tbh this guy is just low-key trolling. 
Hit me up whenever. You can message or chat me on reddit (nobody seems to use the chat feature, but it's pretty useful)
Thanks!
I Got pretty high in both rankings ( &lt; 45th place in the Standard and the top 5 in the Enterprise). I have to say the questions were not that difficult for me, and I thought the Enterprise questions were even easier than the Standard questions. The minimum requirements for enterprise are two years of experience or a master degree, so the program shouldn’t be to easy. The interview was only 10 minutes for me. They said they would let us know something this week, but I cannot wait for it. 
I understand that. But still I think that is the reason to use C/C++/Rust for the "kernel" of things. If I have a "sqlite/postgresql/sqlserver" kernel like with sqlalchemy, then I "just" need to glue elsewhere. 
That is a very general questions. Are you searching for some search engine solution to get the related videos or do you need to create any kind of view where the user can select one of many related videos?
I'm trying to implement related videos like ones in picture. Can I use collectionView over video? https://imgur.com/a/Nkj0Qsy 
Basically just start with installing Xcode from the AppStore and trying the playground. As for tutorials raywenderlich.com has some good tutorials. But just googling will get you started as well.
Yeah I would say for a beginner raywanderlich, YouTube and Udemy will start you off right
&gt; If you don't get the OK from the asigned lead programmer in charge who evaluates you, because anything (yes, anything that he think can not be avoided), do not blame yourself. No kidding. I had an interview recently (not in Swift) where the interviewing engineer clearly had a different solution in mind when asking the question, but the way it was asked left it open to the way I'd thought to proceed. Then every single design decision was questioned, even though both approaches were valid. I decided after that phone call that even if I hadn't blown the interview from the interviewer's perspective, that was someone I didn't think I could work with. (Also, remember, they're not just interviewing you, but vice-versa.) &gt; Code tests are not fair and out of production reality. I've face a 30m test about writing a swift algorithm of sorting king names (Jorge IV The fair) alphanumeric + some space conditions. That seems…not useful in production. Like normally there'd be reign dates and you could use an ordered collection rather than unordered. (This seems like the kind of problem someone who uses dictionaries/hashes a lot would use to get around using arrays instead.) &gt; Also any kind of framework they may ask for. I had like 2 year core data project, nowdays I have to check back why I get faults or avoid duplicates. I have use almost every cocoa framework but I barely remember specific things, plus how different is from the last time I wrote something. No kidding. I'm re-learning CoreData (and used to write WebObjects, so I have even older stuff like EOModel in my head), and it's both familiar and frustratingly alien at the same time.
Let’s Build That App on YouTube 
[hacking with swift](https://www.hackingwithswift.com)
I was In your position once, you could start with Udemy courses which during sales are super cheap, YouTube, and raywenderlich.com.
I thought the core data faults were a way of reducing memory usage. Is there something you can do to stop faults? I asked about the code tests before and the response was the he knew it wasn't real world, esp in an iOS interview, but he said they did it because it filtered people out. If you can pass the code challenge, you should be able to work with a complex API. I thought it would be better to just ask about the complex API instead. I've been programming for a long, long time and never wrote a sort by hand. They really should ask questions about debugging complex code.
I’m sort of in the same boat. Though I’m a working professional web dev. Start with the free books by Apple. 1. Intro to app development by Apple 2. App development with Swift They are really good. Today I went over variables (mutable/can change) and constants (immutable/cannot change). I learnt how swift interprets types of data, type inference and type annotation. It’s a really nice language and really enjoying it. And omg I love Xcode. Then look at paid courses like Udemy, raywenderlich and hacking with swift. Ground yourself in the fundamental Additionally HTML is cool but it’s really a scripting language. Not a programming language. 