That's an implementation detail, not something that can be relied upon. The docs specifically point that out.
Your file should be called Monster.cs, not class.cs. Normally, programs will have tens or hundreds of classes.
Press "formatting help" and read that. In short: empty line above and below code, each code line indented by 4 spaces.
I see 'complex' as a bad thing. There are complex problems where your code has to be complex, but those are so rare that's as a rule complex == too complex. One way in which code can be complex is if it's too connected. If I want to make a change to ONE feature it would be ideal if I only have change one class or one subsystem. Ofc that's not very realistic, but code is really too complex, if such a change incites a ripple of changes in classes throughout all modules in your code. Another way is of your code is cryptic. For example if two design patterns are stacked on top of each other with all sorts of factories, interfaces, class hierarchies, closures, etc etc. At that point, the code becomes 95% boiler plate and very little actual logic that describes what your code does. Even worse, those 5% are spread out over many classes and files, which means the programmer needs to internalize a huge net of code before he can see what it does. Also, when debugging and inspecting variables, closure contexts are often lost (at least in visual studio) and it can be very hard or annoying to jump to definitions of methods when they are references by a pointer of a base type or interface type.
Haha I've seen some terrible combinations of trying to make everything TOO simple and also making it really, really hard too. Take for example what I've seen: Guy (I'll call A) in charge decides that instead of letting a developer (B) write a method that's only 15 lines long, A wants to make things "easier" for everyone by actually making it harder, on purpose. B was given a task to load a bunch of "job" type settings into a system. Each "job" basically does the same set of operations but displays the results to different customers, with each "job" having different parameters. Pretty standard business software type stuff. The method B came up with was some LINQ to read a data file with the options for said "jobs". Instead, A says this is "code that will need maintaining". (If your bothered about a method that's ~15 lines long vs the behemoth ~millions LOC solution it's in then wtf). So A forced B to instead totally fucking abuse dependency injection via injecting data files that were essentially 100x the size of what B created, "all to make it easier", even though it now takes ~1 man hour to correctly configure each file, instead of just changing a few properties in the data file that B suggested. Was absolutely infuriating to see this going on, I could see B was pretty pissed off by it because now he has to spend a good hour fucking around with the dependency injection and this monstrous file format that I have seen, and I can't believe A pushed for it. This was a couple of years ago, still happening.
Only WinRT components?
MSTest is a bit out of the game. xUnit seems to be the new alpha.
&gt; use FFmpeg in Windows 10, Windows 8.1, and Windows Phone 8.1 applications yes.
I think /r/superimaginativename nailed it on the head as to why that poor decision was made
Wish I would have known about this a while ago. Thanks lol now I've got some code to update.
I've got to remember this. My company is trying to find ways around NPAPI plugins for realtime video streaming, and we're considering webRTC and apps, but issues with FFMPEG have been an ongoing issue.
Then you have overflow issues. You won't get that with xor. There's also this sample implementation: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.object.gethashcode%28v=vs.110%29.aspx 
Addition is unchecked in C#, so there is no overflow issue. 
I believe UWPs can access network locations the same as any other location. Have your app invoke the folder picker and tell the user to pick the folder location. You must do this because only the user can give your app permission to access a folder outside the public folders or your isolated storage. This is a very important feature that prevents install rot we see in Win32 apps where they just stuff files everywhere and their installers can never remove it all safely.
Folks, I updated the GetHashCode implementation again. This time I used the ReSharper generated one. Thanks for your feedback.
Folks, I updated the GetHashCode implementation again. This time I used the ReSharper generated one. Thanks for your feedback. 
That's the kicker. It has to be done without user intervention like a folder picker. Unless I can just get permission once and then use that folder for the life of the application? I basically want to make it so every time someone takes a photo in this app it saves to a network location automatically, setting up the save location once would be acceptable as long as it wouldn't have to be done for every photo or every app opening.
It's a bit old, but there are a few existing libraries described here: http://stackoverflow.com/q/787398/1269654
You can save the location after the user gave permission to the folder via a picker. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/windows.storage.accesscache.aspx 
No, not yet. I'll see what I can do. Though if I was writing from scratch today I'd probably look into Task and a lightweight message queue. Edit: Just saw the answer from /u/dilatedmind. I like that approach more than mine.
I'd rather be stuck in the past than limited in the future
I found something called BouncyCastle as well, the problem is I am not able to understand as to how to write program that does what I want, the API's seem a bit twisted.
use return. 
Thanks u/llewellynfalco. You've given me a lot to think about. And research. The way I've been mocking of late is just mocking things like the logger. That makes it a lot easier to check on the entries going into the log files. That and reduced cleanup. For things like the create and store, I have those tests mostly to check configurations etc. That and edge and error conditions. However, I just ran into a case where those tests relieved a significant issue with how I was doing my saves with an Entity Framework 'Attach'. If the db context already had a hold of the object it got angry when I did the Attach.
declare a string variable within the method and return that. 
This is how I handle it, all emails are written to a table when 'sent'. A job runs every 2 minutes that picks some up and sends them to the mail server. Before we did this large batches would just crush our mail server.
So this is one of a few different ways to throttle your send requests, but does this address when requests start timing out?
This answer has some useful methods for you to experiment with: http://stackoverflow.com/a/14322736/996081
That's kind of the point; this is why you can't "just send them"."All at once" is really more about creating the task of doing so; they need to be requested all at once, not sent all at once. He'll need to send that many from time to time, which is why most answers here are suggesting some sort of a queue. If you "just send them", then you will inevitably create two issues: overloading the mail server and losing a good portion of your mails.
Console.readline reads from console input... I presume you're attempting to get the value in a text box, so you need to replace console.readline with the text box object's value property... 
This is correct. You can use the `Text` property on the Textbox. It'll be a string, so you'll have to convert it to an integer. (You're already doing this with the `Int.Parse`)
How's that working for you? Serious question. I look at WinRT every now and again, but for me there are a few things that stop me actually embracing it. First, I don't use any Modern/Metro apps barring a couple of standard windows apps that I resent frequently (Settings app I'm looking at you). I thought this might change with Windows 10 as the whole full screen paradigm in Windows 8 was a crock, but it hasn't. Windows mobile is awful. I could write a lot about this but for time's sake I won't. Finally WinRT isn't the future, it's one lane of a two or three lane road to the future as described by Microsoft. WinRT is the sandboxed, functionally crippled, platform agnostic (as long as it's a Windows variant) slow lane. The middle lane is the rest of .NET including the new cross platform core, and web apps, while the fast lane is Full CLR and Win32 applications. Again, look at Microsoft for examples. Visual Studio is a mix of .NET and Win32 code, Visual Studio Code however is written in Javascript running on Electron (Node basically). That seems more "the future" to me. That turned a bit ranty at the end, I am still genuinely interested in your experience. It is a subject that riles me somewhat though.
When you have to use a legacy database, give NHibernate a change. It can handle many things that aren't supported by EF6 (custom identity generators, custom types, n:m relations with only 2 classes, dictionary support, etc...).
Or you can do what Microsoft have done with Visual Studio Code, and embrace Electron (NodeJS front end platform). Visual Studio Code is cross platform, working well on Linux and Mac as well as Windows and doesn't have a line of WinRT in it. There's your future (until it changes again). 
I don't think that's really the same thing, it's still a desktop app like any other and has all the same pitfalls and issues that other desktop apps have. That said, "modern" or UWP apps aren't great either and have their own limitations. What I am talking about are things like installers, updates, data access, etc. In desktop apps, there's basically no sane way to handle installation/updates. Everyone does their own thing, or uses any number of 3rd party tools to achieve what should be something the developer doesn't have to worry much about. Try building an MSI by hand and you'll see what I mean, it's a nightmare and you end up using something like Wix to do the heavy lifting for you - but then there's so much inconsistency about where to store your program, where to store its data, etc. (there are Microsoft approved "standard" ways but they're not enforced). Doing updates is so difficult, very few bother and just let the user update manually. With the modern/UWP apps, that is at least taken care of for you, you just package your app up and let the platform do that heavy lifting for you. But then you're so bloody limited at what you can do on the platform, it's almost useless for anything "native" so you're back to square one. Ideally, I'd like to have seen Microsoft invest more in something like [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/), a nice half-way between app installation and maintenance and functionality. It's so nice being able to just call cup -y and have everything get updated, though it has its own issues as well.
Business logic is purely functional. OOP doesn't exist in real life, that's why.
C# is case sensitive. So make sure you use a capital T in Text, and make sure you use the proper name of the textbox you're trying to use. 
Because [modularity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modular_programming). 
I've been burned by every single one of those. :) One reason I advocate for writing tests first, really understanding plugins, and keeping a clean model separate from the view.
I can't personally recommend it as I came across it by accident once, but LightSwitch? I don't know if anyone uses it to be honest.
Centennial, not centipede.
I agree that sometimes us devs cannot be trusted but in this case I am writing some custom software for a private company with no employee capable of navigating windows network shares. But it looks like I will be able to pre authorise this on all the phones to dump into the correct area.
ok i think i have it all worked out. One last question. For all the math that was done and to have it posted in the corresponding text boxes, im suppose to click the button and it all do these things. Is there something i have to do?
Well you don't appear to have any way to output the results. When the button is clicked, the numbers are crunched, but nothing else happens. So you have to ask yourself how you want the output of those to be displayed. Do you want it to show a message box that the user clicks OK to dismiss? Do you want labels on the form to show the numbers? I'd probably go with labels, but you could do both if you wanted. In your btnSplit_Click event, after the math is done, you can go: MessageBox.Show("Jack's share is: " + JACKS_SHARE); // + the others, just don't feel like typing it all out here but you get the idea. Or you can make some labels for your form and give them names like labelJacksShare, labelMate1Share, labelCrewShare. Then in the button click, after the math, you can go: labelJacksShare.Text = JACKS_SHARE; etc for the others. Make sense? 
Yeah you're not doing a console app, Console.Writeline is not going to help you here. But, what I said about labels, you do that except with text boxes instead then. textJacks.Text = JACKS_SHARE; That will put Jack's share in the appropriate text box. I just recommended labels because they are values meant to be seen, not changed by the user. But however you want it to show is fine.
Why would you repeatedly open new sockets instead of reusing one? But if latency is a concern, UDP is the way to go instead of TCP.
In the designer, select the form and look at the properties. Click the lightning bolt button which shows the events. Go down to keyup and double-click on the right side.
ok do i have to change JACKS_SHARE (ect) back to a string then? (thats what it says according to my program error) 
unlike many databases, which are client server and have a service constantly running, a sqlite database is just a single file. last time i used sqlite from C# i used https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Data.SQLite i would also recommend installing http://sqlitebrowser.org/ if you are using windows
If it isn't fully dead, it will be. It really depends on what your needs are, which aren't really flushed out in this question. Do you need the framework for a UI, or the backend, or both? What are you trying to solve?
Because you're still not putting the text in the text boxes after doing the math. You're doing the math and then leaving the method. Where you've got the values going into the text boxes, you've got it happening when the text boxes detect a change in their own contents. The way you have it set up, the user has to edit one of the output text boxes first, and then it will change what they typed into the actual answer. That's no good. Put all of those txtWhatever.Text = WHATEVER.ToString(); statements all inside the button click event, after the math is done. So that when you click the button, it does the math AND THEN also puts all of the resulting values into the text boxes.
I use Mac btw. I also downloaded System.Data.SQLite, but I can't actually put that in my project's references. Also, what other databases do you recommend that actually work on a server, for future reference of course?
DUDE you are awesome! thanks for sticking with me through all of this. So you know when you double click a label, textbox, or whatever and it makes a private void? How can I delete these private voids to clean up the program, so i dont have all these private voids that arent being used?
Send a message to the far end, have the far end return a response as fast as it can (minimal processing), and time how long it took. 
This i understand but i don't have access to the far end other then tcp protocol, port and ip.
"Linguo dead?" "Linguo *is* dead."
id recommend using sqlite until you had a reason not to. running on mono i have used https://www.nuget.org/packages/Mono.Data.Sqlite.Portable you should also make sure you have sqlite installed, something like brew install sqlite
Totally true. It's all about finding the right balance. I've over-complicated stuff and under-complicated stuff. When I find the right balance, the adjective I like to use is "elegant". "Elegant" code is code that has hit the sweet-spot in the middle. 
Love the answer. Saved; solid, brief write up. 
Really great answer. You can do Model View Controllers all in a single project, but over all I agree with you. And the larger a project gets, the more manageable it becomes if you simply split them into separate libraries (aka projects). To expand on your answer a bit, for really complicated projects, by splitting your model logic from your view logic, you can *make sure* that the view logic doesn't start entangling itself in the model logic. Every time I've seen model and view logic in the same project, even with all of the best intentions, over time they start intermingling and so splitting things into separate libraries really helps enforce Good Design (or at least Better Design). 
I would argue then that it's a specification bug. It's something that clearly is an issue and has well-defined semantics so it belongs in the specification. But the point is moot, they can't exactly make it an error now because it's too large of a breaking change. 
I try to break larger projects down into small components with specific, well-defined roles. For example, I may have one component that runs as a Windows Service, its job is to gather data from remote sources, normalize it and store it away in a database. Another component provides a REST API to access that data and additional components that need to work with that data will either access it via the API or a SQL View. The advantage is that my team can develop these individual components independently and quickly.
I still cannot actually call the SQLiteConnection.CreateFile() method because Mono.Data.Sqlite.SQLiteConnection doesn't have that method, and I still can't reference the System.Data.SqLite namespace. It doesn't show up in my references list. Unless there is another way to create a database file that is not Access, my problem still remains. Sorry if I sound a bit cranky, but it's really late here. :(
What do you mean by "re-use socket"? The server will have very specific instructions on the format of the data that should come through. It's very likely the socket would not respond if it did not get data in the correct format leading to a timeout.
I'm rather new to c# and EF, but I've been visualising relationships using the .edmx file. This file can be generated using the "View Entity Data Model" feature found in [Entity Framework Power Tools](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-au/data/jj593170.aspx).
I've tried this. But it will change to 01/24/2016 instead. my DateTime.Now.Date is 2/1/2016 16:20:24 i won't be able to compare them as the formate is already different. DateTime mydate = DateTime.ParseExact(startD, "dd/MM/yyyy", null);
Can you share your code on [.NETFiddle](https://dotnetfiddle.net/)?
It seems that this was all for nothing, after finishing my app I deployed it to my phone and even though it works perfectly on desktop it seems that windows phone will not let you browse network shares. How very frustrating.
Are you making use of KnownFolders and given the required capabilities to your application manifest? https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/windows.storage.knownfolders.aspx 
This needs so many more upvotes!
I see, by using socket.connect(ip, port); there is no need for data and this method works but when put in a loop it will keep creating new ports so eventually i have a few 100 opened ports and we wouldn't want that becuase windows doesn't actually close them untill 4 minutes have passed or something like that, so i was wondering if i could use the same one again so there would be no need to create new ports and filling the network
&gt; In the long run, it is better to have separation between the logic of a program and it's presentation. This is called by many things, but "Model View Controller" will show up. The reason it is better is because the front end, the view, will change over the years or you will have to have different versions. Just to be clear, separate projects allow for different versioning, but the MVC pattern offers separation of concerns regardless of whether it's in a single project or multiple projects. 
I am the other way around, normal IT dev, but once upon a time had a foot into the industry even managed to score some interviews at known studios, but the work conditions pushed me into the normal enterprise development. However I still play around the game related coding as hobby when time allows. Good luck with the app.
For example I have a huge chunk of program logic (let's call it the API) that I might want to use in another project later on. It's much easier to have a project to add as a reference than copying code files from one folder to another. Neater, better organized
lol yea just put everything in form1.cs, fuckin genius!
True, but if it's much harder to leak your MVC pattern if they are in different assemblies. 
For my MVC apps I usually have at least 3 projects. The main web site project, a project for the unit tests, and a database project. Instead of creating three solutions I keep all projects that support my main app in the same solution. And then others get created or brought in for reasons dmoonfire pointed out. 
Whenever someone says "this is really clever", my eyes roll into the back of my head. I want boring code. Soviet Bloc style boring please.
If you log in (you can use your Google or GitHub account), you have the option to vote for the issue. If you think it's important. I think it would be awesome.
Short answer: third party applications that don't talk to one another and a requirement to have up to the second information from those applications in a centralized location.
lol Well at least you're honest. Fair enough haha
I agree that combining design patterns can be confusing, if powerful; and it's probably pretty rare to see someone do it appropriately or even well. But if it were done cleanly and decently documented, would it be easier for you to accept? We try to either name the actors of a design pattern by what they are, or include it in the xml docs if naming isn't enough (e.g. ReportFilter, UpgradeStrategy, UpgradeStrategyFactory, OrderCreatedListener, etc.), and no one has complained about it or has had much trouble with it yet (save the ones that simply haven't yet learned what those patterns are; that's a personal development issue for them). As far as keeping it clean, we tend to have at least one person that is really good at championing that kind of thing keep it under control in code review, which also does well for keeping people on the same page. We're also starting up community practice forums that happen every two weeks to keep people informed of these design strategies. Whether or not they utilize them is up to them and their teams, but even knowledge is power; at least more people will be less lost when they encounter such things.
The only way this makes sense is if they have disabled the JavaScript/Ajax caching on the client. And even then it doesn't make sense. If the client already had the data what are you query the server for? If they have pre loaded the data on the client then they are wasting calls back to the server just to get an ID. Use lodash or underscore to search the client object collection and avoid any/all server calls... 
Another danger with design patterns (one that you might not encounter since you have a person actively checking and updating the code) is when functionally changes. If a certain module behaves exactly as a design pattern, you might make it as such, so that future programmers get a quick understanding. For example, "ResourceVisitor". But, later on the functionality might change, for example it might do an extra check that creates missing resources. Then, the name is plain wrong, because the future programmer will make the wrong assumptions. If the module were called " ResourceChecker" or something less generic, like "ResourceDonkey", the programmer would analyse for himself what it is exactly what the code does.
Valid argument. This looks like a good introduction to a different design argument though which would be the value of interfaces over abstract classes. If you had some internal stuff going on within a design pattern, the implementation of that design pattern could be easily replaced by re-implementing those interfaces (should the the change be drastic enough to justify the scenario). Also, that kind of dependency that you're describing would be a good candidate for dependency injection. I've run into these scenarios, and they were easily addressed by DI. The other benefit of this kind of thing is that it doesn't have to affect the interface at all; it's just part of the implementation.
ASP.NET 5 is now ASP.NET Core 1.0 
You act like functional programming means WE HAVE NO DATA EVER Functional and OO are entirely about how you manipulate state.
The Preview pic is NSFW
Web dev here. We use projects to separate: * Database scripts * Database classes (sometimes this is together with the above) * Business logic (as a service layer) * Web code (i.e. controllers, templates, CSS, javascript) I am the sole dev on a mobile app project using Cordova and I have one project for the Cordova app code and one for a console app I wrote to build multiple apps from a single codebase.
I'm not acting like that all! I'm reacting to your asinine blanket statements that have all been complete BS. I have no problem with FP.
&gt; The compiler thinks that the statement (x++) is stupid, and likely you missed something. Actually, the C# spec explicitly calls out post/pre increment and decrement expressions as "expression statements", i.e. those that are valid stand-alone statements. Once you put parens around the expression, it's no longer a post-increment-expression. Even though the compiler could trivially detect a simple "wrapped" expression statement and optimize it, IMO your source code shouldn't compile with an invalid grammar -- providing a simple code-fix would be a better approach.
Sadly there is no scaffolding for winforms. If MVC is a possiblity for you for the UI rather than winforms, scaffolding is exactly what you'd use.
Hey highlow33 Would you mind explaining this a bit for me or point me somewhere on stackoverflow or something. I'm not well versed in the route stuff to understand what I need to do. Thanks a lot. edit: I think I understand what you I could do. * take all the incoming requests * parse the name out of the url as it should all point to one controller/action * autofill form based on name in url. Does this sound correct?
 data[i++] = data[i] + 10; // data[1] = data[1] + 10; // i = 2 I was expecting the output to be 1, 12, 3. The assignment operator is _right-associative_ so I was expecting the expressions to be evaluated right to left. [The C# spec says that in "x = y", "x" is evaluated first!](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa691315.aspx) I'm not a compiler author, but I cannot see a reason for doing it in this order other than preference? Both sides need to be typed and evaluated. So I don't understand why it goes left to right instead of right to left. 
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2490219/how-to-pass-more-than-one-parameter-to-a-c-sharp-thread
the iframe content is rendered client-side, not server side. the server knows nothing about the iframe or what is on the other page/site yes, you can, but it's not a c# question, you would do it in javascript and html 
Keep in mind the lodash is nastily a superset of underscore, and supposedly it's faster as well...
I would use the process Exited event: pStart.Exited += MyMethodToRunAfterExit
a sqlite database is just a file. you could just create an empty file (eg touch test.db), and open that with sqlite sqlite also comes with a command line tool which is an easy way to manage the database. for example at the command line you could run "sqlite3 test.db" and that would open or create the test.db database. edit: To clarify, I don't know why i used that nuget package in the past, if you could just use the builtin mono.data.sqlite, but either way you should just be able to specify a file in your connection string, and if it doesn't exist it should be created. 
In your example, the click event decides what to do to the form by reading PictureHolder's properties and calling its methods. Can't the object handle manipulation of the form? Can't the PictureHolder object be smart enough to 'put self on form'? This is why I asked how do you bridge form/class.
@angular i use both socket.shudown and then socket.close so i close them on my side but windows does not untill x time has passed for some reason @nemec im using tcp but the problem is i dont quite understand how to re-use it becuase it's always connected but i need to make connections too it to retrieve ping by such method http://pastebin.com/si4dACcv
Essentially, instance methods in .NET have an implicitly-defined context on which they operate (in C#, the context is given the name `this`). When a method is called on a type instance, the method's `this` context is bound to that instance. Another way to look at it: when you call a method on an instance, you're actually sending a *message* to it, and the instance then performs the requested behavior. Other object-oriented languages make this context explicitly defined. In Python, for example, the first argument to *all* instance methods is defined to be a reference to the object instance that the method is being called on (and is, by convention, named `self`).
You have a class called Ctrl that you can call Update() on. Notice how there's no 'static' keyword? That means you have to call .Update() on an instance of a Ctrl. The 'this' keyword refers to that instance. var bob = new Ctrl(); bob.Update(); When we get inside of the Update() method, 'this' is referring to the Ctrl Bob. 'this' won't exist in a static method because you can call static methods without having an instance of the thing.
We create a class once, and similarly it's only saved once in our program. However, we can create multiple instances of our class and our program stores the variables/state of each object. When a program calls on an object's method, it's calling on the class.method(). No matter how many objects you have, they are all referencing the same method! This is a reference to the specific object calling/invoking the class method. So when ball1.force(10) gets called, the program knows that this.ball1 invoked the method. This is generally not needed, it's implicit by default. An example of when you need to use "this". I have an object/instance character that holds money. When they complete a quest, or kill a mob... I want to use a method that will add money to their character. If I did not use "this", the method defaults/scopes to the local variable first. So if I said character(10), the method would actually use the local methods money, instead saving the new value into my objects money. class Character { private int money; public void SetMoney(int money) { this.money += money; } }
I guess I'm spoiled by Resharper; I thought it was already built into VS at this point, but I usually just right click the interface and 'Go to Implementation' so finding that stuff is pretty quick. As for figuring out what is connected to what in the context of dependency injection, we register all of our "services" with the IoC container pretty much in one place so if you need to know what implementation is being used, we just look there. This is the area where we try to keep it simple. I don't see a need to register every interface there is, only the ones that are written as dependencies, which are services and data abstractions, mainly.
It's just a scope thing. Ctrl controller = new Ctrl("foo"); void asdf(){ Ctrl controller = new Ctrl("bar"); this.controller.Run(); //starts foo controller.Run(); //starts bar } 
M2M designs aren't overly difficult to do, the real issue is that you typically do them so infrequently that you can never fully retain all the nitty gritty details. Julie Lerman(??) has some excellent articles related to this issue specifically and goes into detail as to how it implement it using code first. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/data/hh134698.aspx 
correct or i end up with like a 1000 ports, since they dont close very fast, the reason i do this is becuase i use the snippet above as latency timer or just keep using 1/2 specific local ports (it's already connected once on the computer trough another process)
What are you trying to do here? Constantly ping the server? You could try [this](https://vocalsteve.wordpress.com/2011/03/16/port-reuse-in-c-tcplistener-tcpclient/) or do it the real way and use the [Ping](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.net.networkinformation.ping%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) class. If you're trying to write your *own* ping, make your socket Raw socket and craft the packet yourself (it won't take up any ports).
Sure, pass the form to the pictureholder in the constructor.
Thoughts, opinions? I am kind of surprised that it actually works.
I can't use ping, because it do not reply to icmp and only tcp i'm only trying to measure the time between server and client by tcp
&gt; finishing my app I deployed it to my phone and even though it works perfectly on desktop it seems that windows phone What version of Windows is running on the phone?
Thanks. The course is supposed to be in python but I can't be bothered to learn python syntax. 
You mean [MemProfiler](http://memprofiler.com/)? I love that program, though the learning curve is steep. Worth the cost!
I tried the others. However ninject just works. 
Its not terribly confusing, no, but there is almost no point in not just having the increment on the next line. The compiler is going to do it for you anyways, why not just make the intention more clear?
You want to interactively test your code? Use the C# Interactive pane in Visual Studio (there's also csi.exe). It provides a REPL where you can evaluate and execute code at runtime.
Yeah, sorry about that. Testing can be pretty difficult to understand at first. Here's a very simple example that hopefully will help. // This is a simple example of a Console app class Program { static void Main(string[] args) { // It simply creates an instance of StringGetter, // then writes the output of the EchoString to the Console var stringGetter = new StringGetter(); Console.WriteLine(stringGetter.EchoAString("SomeString")); } } // A simple class public class StringGetter { // A simple method that we want to test public string EchoAString(string theString) { return theString; } } This would then be in the test project: public class StringGetterTest { [Fact] public static void ItShouldReturnTheDesiredString() { const string testString = "ATestString"; // Create an instance of the class you want to test var systemUnderTest = new StringGetter(); // Execute the method you want to test var result = systemUnderTest.EchoAString(testString); // Assert that the result is correct Assert.Equal(testString, result); } } As you can see, you just "new up" the class containing the method you want to test, then run the method. This way you can write a bunch of tests for all of your classes to be sure that it works. When you run the tests in Visual Studio (or whatever IDE you're using) you can choose to just run it or your can debug and step through as if your app is actually running.
[removed]
Each monster will be an instance of that class so you will likely need to keep track of them. Then iterate over them to change their names.
First, make your instance variables private and then create public properties to access them (to follow good coding practices). Then you can accomplish what you want with a static property: public static bool MonsterNameIsVisible { get; set; } and change your property getter for the name to: public string MonsterName { get { // Here, monsterName (lowercase m) is your private instance variable return MonsterNameIsVisible ? monsterName : "Unknown"; } } Then you can do: Monster.MonsterNameIsVisible = false; // someMonster.MonsterName returns "Unknown" Monster.MonsterNameIsVisible = true; // someMonster.MonsterName returns the instance's name 
I know I'm a bit too meticulous, but this is confusing. The spell affects the player, not the monsters. The Monster object does not have to know if a player sees him or not. The spell hits the player, so it's the player's class responsibility to bypass its own vision behaviour to something like "I only see moving things". With your approach, it's like saying people in the street get darker skins when I put my sunglasses. No ! It's my vision being altered, not the surrounding environment.
I'm just too scared not to make copies when I'm about to try something drastic or crazy haha.
PHP doesn't really have arrays. PHP has hashmaps. The equivalent in C# to what you need is called a `Dictionary`. var dictionary = new Dictionary&lt;string, int&gt; {["A"] = 0, ["B"] = 1, ["C"] = 2}
I was going to write it in C# hence why I posted mate.
In this case, both approaches are valid. BlueInt32's approach is a little better for true OOP because it's not really the Monster reporting based on the Player, but the Monster reporting in general and the Player has knowledge based on their status and the Monster's report. You'd simply look at each monster being passed in: class Player { // Code code code... string GetMonsterName(Monster monster) { string name = monster.monsterName; switch (this.Status) { case Status.Blind: name = "Unknown Monster"; break; } return name; } } This could be expanded to what amounts to a ApplyMonsterBasedStatusEffects function that returns a modified version of a Monster: Monster ApplyMonsterBasedStatusEffects(Monster monster) { // ... switch (this.Status) { // ... } // ... } There are definitely points where it makes more sense to not put this logic in a real-world model, but in this case, I don't think it is terribly different.
It does evaluate the right side first. It does this: var temp = data[i] + 10; data[i] = temp; i = i + 1; i is 1 initially, so the second element in the array is modified (since arrays are 0-based).
Thank you for your exposition! What you describe in the first section most people would not call a **unit** test; it resembles an **integration** test rather. So I totally agree, that there is no much value in unit testing IO-Layer functions and one should rather rely on integratiuon tests there. But in the end that is nothing *new*... The main characteristic of unit tests is imho, that they are **isolated** from othere parts of the system. So they will run extremly fast, which enables one to run them more often than integration tests. That enables one to use TDD, which is imho a nice methodology for some areas of a program, mostly the doman layer. And you really just test some area of your code - often that is just a method, but it could also be a composition of classes; it depends on the granularity and the domain problem, where you cut the seams and inject fakes. And yes, there you need *fakes*. But with the power of reflection and introspection of most modern languages, that is an easy thing to do - with the help of mocking frameworks. Imho it is great to have the possibility to test domain logic without *complex* dependencies as databases, webservices or even the file system! But unit testing alone is not sufficient. To produce stable software and make developers feel *comfortable* you need to apply the full [test pyramid](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/TestPyramid.html)! But you are right: 100% code coverage is nothing to go for. [Mark Seeman](http://blog.ploeh.dk/2015/11/16/code-coverage-is-a-useless-target-measure/) has a nice post about that.
What if you have a group of players and only 1 person can't see the monster. Whether the monster can be seen is specific to the player, not the monster. So whether the monster is visible should be a property of the player. And it would be vision in general, not just seeing monsters. So the player could have a int vision property that gets lowered to 0 when he can't see things. 
To me, it's kind of silly to determine if a player can see by checking if a monster has a name. What about other mechanics of the game like movement where a monster isn't involved? A blind player is going to move slower, have difficulty finding treasure, and so on. 
I like the concept too and it works really well but I also want to learn from the ground up, so to speak. I have read that Entity has a lot more overhead and is generally slower than some of the other solutions, is this true and does it noticeably affect real world performance? &gt; I'd highly recommend Dapper. I'll look into it for sure. I feel that learning to query using raw SQL is just one of the first steps for me and something that I would like to know how to do, whether I ever actually use it or not. Maybe it could be useful for a database deployment script or something in future, or when I just need to perform a simple one off SELECT query.
CoreCLR will require work to run on Android, but I believe it will eventually come.
How long will it take do you think? Just a guess. 
Don't worry, It will be 30 years before we upgrade.
I love android and would love to switch to Linux, but being a .NET developer, it hasn't made much since to run Linux as a primary OS. It will be great to write apps for Linux as well as Windows, but until Visual Studio is on Linux, it'll be hard to make that switch. 
No, it doesn't. Read the link I included. The explanation in OP also elaborates on this point. 
Yea, I believe we actually have a choice. I am not our service-now SME, I just develop things for our infrastructure, but, yea... we choose when to upgrade.
I'm not talking about postfix vs. prefix. The left expression is evaluated before the right expression. I was curious as to why this is the case. 
Even with tiny databases I found EF to be an order or two slower on simple crud operations.
Ok thanks.
It makes more sense to me why they decided to do this if you rewrite the assignment as a method call: static int Assign(out int lhs, int rhs) { lhs = rhs; return lhs; } public static void Main() { int[] data = {1, 2, 3}; int i = 1; Assign(out data[i++], data[i] + 10); Console.WriteLine(String.Join(",", data)); } If the left side was evaluated second, you would need to rearrange these parameters in such a refactoring.
If you're on windows, Visual studio with resharper is the way to go. Else, ~~monodevelop~~ see comment below.
Sweet baby Jesus. What a time to be alive
&gt;But I heard here on reddit, among other places, that the HttpWebRequest does not use the CPU efficiently, and was advised to use async/await and HttpClient.GetAsync(). `HttpWebRequest` has async methods too, see `GetResponseAsync()`. &gt;Waiting for a Task's result should block efficiently, right? As if waiting for a lock or sleeping. The point of async/await is to not block at all. When awaiting a Task, the method sets up a continuation and exits. The thread isn't blocked, it's returned to the thread pool until the scheduler reuses it to continue another (or the same) method.
It's easy enough to update SSDT for compatibility. I still end up in SSMS frequently, but the main benefits for me are: - Building and publishing: Now that I'm use to it, this saves time by preventing me from making changes to one object that are incompatible with another, and letting me make schema changes without destroying data or figuring out change scripts. It also allows for easier and faster deployment to different environments, and automated deployment (using Release Management and DACPACs). - Source Control: Maintaining schema versions, history, and comments in source control, in sync with other code changes, has frequently saved me from losing work. Plus I feel more free to experiment, since I'm confident I can roll back to a good version. 
So you're trying to get 200 sites done at once? You could try and feed a list of url strings into a foreach, then from that foreach, use 'Task.Run' with a crawler. Then if you want to do processing afterward, create a collection (you could use an array and a for loop instead of a foreach) and await Task.factory.Continuewhenall. Or you could go and do processing inside the crawler object. 
&gt; but that doesn't happen since the original thread, being a GUI thread, will always stop and let stuff run on it Just to clarify, that kind of reads like it's impossible to block the UI thread, but that's your responsibility as a developer. It's definitely possible to block the UI thread in which case your app will become unresponsive. Potential problems to look for would be calling Task.Wait() or retrieving Task.Result instead of using await in an async method. Also, any blocking calls you make in an async method will block the calling/initiating thread. Generally, you want to make sure all of your I/O is done using asynchronous methods (those provided by the classes you're using if possible) and all CPU-intensive work should be farmed out to the TaskPool via Task.Run, etc...
No you shouldn't. Google would never include .NET Core on Android, period. Also there will not be more apps on Linux since the desktop stack is not available on Linux and only web apps will make sense in relation to .NET Core.
No, I'm trying to run 200 web sites/domains/crawling threads, in parallel. However, doing it the naive way (the way I did it at first) is not efficient enough, the 200 threads get in each others way. But since most of the time, a crawler is waiting for web responses, I figured it must be possible somehow. It's not about synchronizing them, just running in parallel.
While true, making it a value type without overriding anything will use Reflection by default, which will become slower.
I used to think I liked having full control over the database... and while in some cases you need more control... I think Entity Framework Code-First approach is amazing. Especially when coupled with migrations. We have it wired up so that checking in code to TFS triggers a build; which on success publishes the site, and when the application runs for the first time it applies any missing migrations. Our deployment in every environment is automated to the point it takes a couple clicks in the TFS web interface for our QA group to deploy. Very, VERY little of our code base was ever autogenrated (and none that was stayed untouched); if that helps set you at ease about EF code first. No single tool is going to work for every job however; and there are still some cases where we have stored procs and functions that we can access through our EF context quite easily. Dapper is awesome (another commenter mention it). It works for Stack Overflow afterall and is my preferred method for working with raw SQL at the database level. You definitely want to limit SQL in application code as much as possible (using stored procs) when dealing with normal data access (things like the EF seed method and DB Migrations are a little different). ASP.NET MVC is pretty cool; and you can go with the fully scaffolded approach if you want but you don't have to. We actually are using EF code first for data access and our own approach on MVC which introduces a "view model" to match the data that should be on a page (which may borrow bits from several model classes at one time). My overall (generalized of course; every situation is different) is EF Code first is best for things that don't exist (although the reverse engineering tool works well!) and database first modeling is best for DBs that exist -- we'll have to see how EF 7 handles DB-First.
That makes perfect sense. I'll do some debugging to confirm that and then fix it. Is there a different/better way I could set this up? Or is this the right way to do it?
Indeed, applying patterns seems a bit overkill for OP's situation and level, but at least pointing out what is correct object responsibility and what's not is a minimum here. Anybody reading the code of a monster mutating when the player is dizzy would think wtf and start its own game project instead. edit : composing the player class with a Vision class instance (= behavior in strategy pattern) that gets a monster as param is simple and clean enough imo. public class Vision { bool _blurry = false; public void CloudOver() { _blurry = true; } public void Recover() { _blurry = false; } public string IdentifyMonster(Monster monster) { return _blurry ? "Unknown Creature" : monster.Name; } }
Google doesn't have to include .Net Core on Android. You bundle it with your App. The same way Xamarin Apps bundle the Mono runtime with their app right now. 
That's the right way to do it. 
Honestly, I have tried several slightly different ways of handling select lists in MVC, and none of them completely satisfy me, even though they all work. One thing you are doing (and I have done a lot) is having a model property specifically for the list of items. I don't like doing that, but can't quite articulate why. One of the things I have started doing is creating static helpers that generate &amp; return the SelectList that gets rendered as the &lt;select/&gt; tag. So in your view you'd have something like: @Html.DropDownListFor(m =&gt; m.DistributorId, HelperClassName.SelectListOfWhatever(parameterForCurrentlySelectedItem:=Model.DistributorId), "---Please Select Distributor---") It's not necessarily any less work until you have several views/models that need to render the same list. At that point you do avoid having to put the special 'list' property in all of your models. There may be some other down-sides to doing it this way that other people can point out. But for my purposes, it has worked pretty well.
Feel free to cut me down since my knowledge is limited but maybe the Parallel.ForEach method will help you? So then set up your work inside the loop and it'll it run in parallel. I'd look into it rather than taking my work for it if that's the kinda thing you're looking for though
Great! Glad I could help. Regarding your entity error: do you have primary keys defined on your tables? If not, that will get you if you're doing DB First. Haven't done code-first in a while, so I don't recall how you handle it there. Good luck!
Yeah. Except that this is hard so we pay Xamarin to bundle Mono with our apps instead of doing it ourselves. Also I was commenting on the original post.
Lots of good info, thanks. I think, at the moment I will use Dapper with some of my existing databases and get a good grasp of working with that for a while before progressing any further. I have used EF already, both to reverse engineer an existing database and to create a fresh one using migrations on one of the Asp Net tutorials but it really is small steps at this stage. I'm still only really learning some of the basics of C# itself and it's really nice to be able to interact with my existing databases while doing so and playing around with all sorts of data. Thanks again for all the detailed comment! p.s Are you from the WarWizard Gaming Forum?
Look at SharpDevelop. I don't know what its footprint is like...maybe worse...but it's worth looking into. http://www.icsharpcode.net/opensource/sd/ edit: added link
http://blog.stephencleary.com/2013/10/taskrun-etiquette-and-proper-usage.html Four part series by Stephen Cleary, may help you out. I found it interesting enough to order his book.
Vim/emacs with plugins. You're gonna miss out on autocompletion, but it's not so bad. 
If there's such a significant difference, I'd make sure that EF is using the same indexes as your raw queries.
&gt; vim No thanks, I don't want to get into that kind of discussion.
&gt; only web apps will make sense in relation to .NET Core Why? Why not use Gtk or Qt for Linux desktop? As far as I know, at least Gtk has C# bindings.
Also (either way) thanks for your help
VS won't be able to create the code to connect/create bindings to your database by drag and drop, you'll have to write that yourself in the code behind. Yes, you can use Entity Framework with libraries, console, winform, wpf, asp.net. EF is built on top of the ADO.NET technology, so anything that can use that, can use EF. 
It's not a problem that it's a reserved name, it's a problem that it's a *secret* reserved name. The only way to figure out that you can't use it is to read Microsoft's source code. Otherwise it just fails silently.
There's a portable "Xcopyable" version of it as well for USB drives, runs on Windows and Linux Edit: actually it's Windows only, I was thinking of MonoDevelop
If you write things with an [ActionBlock](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh194684%28v=vs.110%29.aspx?f=255&amp;MSPPError=-2147217396) you can control how many tasks are allowed to run in parallel via an easily adjustable const. Put the results into a ConcurrentBag and process them all when complete. Or, you could even process them as they complete individually, but that's slightly more work. EDIT: example based on stuff I worked on... ConcurrentBag&lt;ItemResult&gt; results = new ConcurrentBag&lt;ItemResult&gt;(); var workerBlock = new ActionBlock&lt;URI&gt;(async (uri) =&gt; await this.UploadPageHelperAsync(uri, results, ).ConfigureAwait(false), new ExecutionDataflowBlockOptions { MaxDegreeOfParallelism = ConcurrentRequests }); foreach (URI uri in uris) { workerBlock.Post(uri); } workerBlock.Complete(); await workerBlock.Completion.ConfigureAwait(false); In this is example ItemResult is an internal class, but could be whatever type of object you build from the results returned by a web request. The result collection is passed to the method that processes a single URI and is populated within the helper.
Thank you. I will check out Tasks, and this person's article. Have a great evening
It was. The bulk of the cost seems to be in the query generator and result mapped. P.S. My tests were single table crud, mostly PK lookups.
&gt;Are there any benefits to using MonoDevelop God no. MonoDevelop (or at least the version that comes with Unity) is bloody horrendous.
yes i want multiple programs running running with a single window that could be ran 1 by 1 
Thanks. Once you had told me that it is Tasks not BackgroundWorker I too stumbled on that page. Always something new to learn
For automated tests, sure. However, using a REPL is absolutely appropriate for exploratory programming.
Make sure you have this property set https://github.com/lefthandedgoat/turtleload/blob/master/src/turtleload/Program.fs#L15 Beyond that, if the sites you are calling and respond in a few MS the client side of making a call will become a bottleneck because it is surprisingly expensive. The link I provided is an actor based load tester written in F#. It accomplishes similar goals to what you have. You can use this framework in C# http://getakka.net/ to have actors. The actor model works really well for having lots of 'workers' and abstracts the threading model nicely. Please note though that the thread pool is slow to warm up and will only issue a new thread every like 500ms, so getting up to 200 workers going can be time consuming.
It's in the link that you posted. If x is classified as a variable: *x is evaluated to produce the variable. *y is evaluated and, if required, converted to the type of x through an implicit conversion (Section 6.1). ... The variable is produced first. From the statements that follow these initial ones, the primary reasoning is to ensure the type on the right side is compatible with the memory location that the variable on the left represents. 
All the pieces of the runtime I believe will not be hard, Microsoft has an ARM JIT, they just need to release it publically which they will do, they need to refactor their jit code. Let's say ~6 months.
The version that comes with many distros is quite old. So might be that.
Are these all .NET applications?
I actually agree with you about the definition of a Unit Test; even in what I wrote, I said "that *look* like UTs, except that they also [have external dependencies]". They are absolutely and intentionally integration tests because the ROI on those (in that scenario) is far greater than the ROI that a true UT would provide - and I would say the UT in that scenario is likely just creating a false sense of security along with a bunch of busy work. As for fakes, the actual need for them is vastly overblown - that's essentially all I'm saying in these long expositions. Except in cases where the test actually depends on a polymorphic interface (in which case I would already have an interface and my "fake" would just implement that - no framework requires), I have yet to find a scenario where the problem is not better-solved by making the code itself more testable (again, no framework needed). Of course, if you're retrofitting tests into an already-existing code base, that might not be feasible - no rule is absolute in this field.
Honestly I could have gone both ways on this, but it depends on your situation and both can do well. Interfaces work well for things you don't need to initialize. If the base monster class had a set of code that must be run on every unit an abstract class would be a good way to go. However, based on the simplicity of what OP showed for his game concept of simple properties an interface seemed like a good starting point for his education, which would lead him into the world of abstract, partial, and so on.
the last thing i want to do when i'm off the clock is to code more.
Sound logic. But I'm actually intending to change the property itself (part of my goal is to use examples that aren't my exact code so I can go through the process of applying it to my program). A better example would be that the world was covered in paint and all monsters become "Unknown Green Creature"
Do you have this code hosted where we can take a look at it?
Don't call .Show() or Visible=true until all of the data is fully loaded.
&gt; magic It doesn't rely on magic. The code is literally given to you. You are free to modify it as you see fit.
That's not code first's fault. You shouldn't have different migrations applied in a different order anyway, that defeats the whole purpose of code first.
Thought you were talking about SSDT. But code first suffers from the same problems. You have state A, B, C, D, and E in various environemnts, from dev machines, test machines, staging, live etc and you want to get them to state F. It is going to produce different results on each machine, depending on the starting state. Not to mention fuck around with binary blobs it likes to keep.
All that means is that the task will release the thread while it's waiting for a response from the web site (which is where the cpu can breathe for a second), then wake back up when a response comes in. Since the sites will likely response fairly quickly, you probably won't gain as much as you're hoping to.
Thank you very much dmoonfire. I appreciate it!
I'll definitely try this to avoid spamming the forum, thank you faitdeception.
No. I had an idea I wanted to try a little while ago and tried to do it as a UWP app. In under an hour I'd hit a hard limitation due to what API's are allowed. Looking at all the apps I have open now, I don't think any of them will ever be UWP apps.
I think the best you can do is batch the async requests and then process them as they finish. That's about as efficient as I'd hope to get... Basically load up a list with the tasks. Then do something like var tasks = urls.Select(Crawl).ToList(); // where Crawl is an async method while(tasks.Any()) { var task = Task.WhenAny(tasks); var result = await task; Task.Run(() =&gt; ProcessResult(result)); // or whatever tasks.Remove(task); } This is from memory, so sorry if some syntax is jacked up; you get the jist though. What you could do is batch those tasks instead of spinning all of them up, and then if tasks.Count &lt; maxTasks then add the next (to keep the batch full). Just an idea. This will allow you to process at max throughput and still process results as they come through.
I thought "VIM better than VS at C#" was kind of an urban myth. But nope, you are real, sir.
I agree to a point. But you'd be amazed how many companies still rely on windows crud apps.
I've kicked the thought around, but haven't found the right idea to motivate me enough to invest my personal time on. Heck, personal time is a premium around here and I generally turn down paying side work for the same reason, never mind an app that will likely yield nothing.
Yea I don't know. JB is a great company and all but it's tough to beat all the MS ecosystem integration of VS. 
Notepad++ with a c# plugin (search c# compile notepad++) should do the trick.
Derp, you're right.
Windows Phone 8 was quite successful. Once they acquired Nokia and released WP8 for the most part there weren't any apps that my friends that had iPhone or Android phones had that I didn't have a good option for. (I am now back to Android for the Galaxy S6) It's true it's not going to become the gold mine that the Apple and Google stores were, but that is mainly due to the saturation in that market - there is tons of competition. The only emerging market left is the Windows app market.
Same here, unfortunately. I have grand ideas but I work full time and have a full time life after work.
I'm actually between jobs right now, but I made $500 by writing a little program for one of my previous employers over the weekend. Small company and I was getting a few hours here and there with them doing some work. I saw a huge need for something and gave them a proposal. The owner's partner was spending half a day converting data, and this is something he ends up doing way too often. I've been on the lookout for anything else I can help with like that. Also proposed a tablet version of the app that they can actually sell to their clients, hopefully with me getting a chunk each time. Not a ton of clients for them, but it would be opening a door for me. Also working on an app that I'm going to try to sell to my sister's employer. Again, saw a need and proposed it to her, and she agreed they badly need it. Didn't mention it to the company yet though. But this app is something I think I can sell to other companies too.
Thank you!
That's actually exactly it. The other courses I have been taking are html5+css and html based javascript. I was reluctant on the javascript till I found out its incorporated into the browsers and used everywhere. I figure if I make an app, I will probably want a webpage for it and its good general knowledge to have. Although I am extremely new at this. Started 2nd week of January and have taken the MVA for c#, html and css, and I'm finishing the javascript. Next I need to figure out the best course of action for my next steps.
I donno man. did you see their new database ide DataGrip? it had promise but fell short of ssms
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ttw7t8t6.aspx General statement: check the msdn before posting a trivial question. Keep this bookmarked: [C# programming guide](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/67ef8sbd.aspx)
 Animal arr = new Dog[3]; arr[0] = new Cat(); &gt; The code will compile successfully. However, at runtime it will blow up pretty bad. There is no way to fit a Cat into a Dog. Uhm, no. It will not compile successfully. Besides that, using var is not the way to avoid the error. You should avoid Array covariance generally instead, which is the true culprit here. With lists this mistake would not happen. There's nearly no reason to use arrays over (readonly) lists anymore.
Lets assume the author meant Animal[] not Animal. It of course reduces to: [TestClass] public class UnitTest1 { [TestMethod] public void TestMethod1() { Animal[] animals = new Dog[3]; animals[0] = new Cat(); } } public class Animal{} public class Dog : Animal{} public class Cat : Animal{} Which throws the following exception: {"Attempted to access an element as a type incompatible with the array."} By using var the type of animals implicitly becomes Dog[]. The same thing would occur if you returned Animal[] from a function that created a dog and attempted to assign them to this. The correct way of dealing with this issue is to use generics [TestClass] public class UnitTest1 { [TestMethod] public void TestMethod1() { List&lt;Animal&gt; animals = new List&lt;Dog&gt;(); animals[0] = new Cat(); } } This would indeed not compile. However if you wanted to return a enumerable of Animals without transforming the collection (which is not free) C#4 introduced the concept of variance on generics. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms228359(v=vs.90).aspx The following is valid syntax in C#4+: [TestClass] public class UnitTest1 { [TestMethod] public void TestMethod1() { IEnumerable&lt;Animal&gt; animals = new List&lt;Dog&gt;(); foreach (var animal in animals) ; } } Note you can not assign new animals to an IEnumerable since it is marked with 'out' indicating it can not receive any types of the generic. This is useful if you have a common method that can return any number of animal types that are for iterate only. This is a pattern I personally use when I know I'm going to be dealing with variance in my generic types: http://randcsharpsnips.blogspot.com/2010/10/variance-composition-pattern-for-c-4.html 
A few notes: - I'm not sure if this post is a joke. I have the feeling you may just be trolling us. - I don't think /r/csharp is meant to be a recruiting platform. - This has got to be among the ugliest / most jumbled CVs I've ever seen. The fact that the title is *Microsoft Word - jlindresumev7\_3\_open\_cover* is the icing on the cake. Since this thread is as-is is just going to be downvoted to oblivion, do we just want to turn this thread into how (not) to write a CV for a software developer? I can start... again, I'm not sure if you are trolling us, but either way, the CV made me laugh: - Don't list every single company you ever had anything to do with. A page with ~30 different companies you had something to do with for a month is not really useful for anyone. - Format is important. Make a reasonable title. I'd say to avoid Calibri, but that's just me. - Don't refer to yourself in the 3rd person. - Don't put content all the way to the edge of a written page. There is a reason why people use margins on pages. - Don't make your CV too long. Some people will argue whether or not 2-3 pages is too long, but 9 pages is **definitely** too long. - Try to avoid a landscape-formatted table with every single language feature (!!!!!) you've ever touched. If I see that an applicant is an 'expert' in C#, I'm going to assume they've used Linq at some point in the past half decade. - You listed an IRC handle. As if that wasn't ridiculous enough, you didn't even mention which server... - It's best not to write "This is a ..." in a CV. If you're going to do it, **embrace it** and write it everywhere! "This is a list of recommendations," "This is a list of 30 companies that I did something with" - Your site and all links to it are blank. Just the sheer ridiculousness of this CV makes me believe / hope that this is a joke.
Huh... I thought they stopped express versions after community. 
That is absolutely not true. Someone said I said that and now a bunch of people think that I said that. That resume is 100% accurate and if anyone wants to dispute anything in it I will provide verifiable proof that it is true.
&gt; Someone said I said that and now a bunch of people think that I said that. That someone was named `Crusher`.
Someone said they had logs and they never could produce them. I do have 5 years worth of logs and I have no record of me ever saying that, either as Crusher or Odyss3us. What do you think I'm lying about?
I just did a search on my log file which goes from Feb 27th 14:27:28 2013 to Dec 3rd 21:49:16 2015 for "most of it is true" and that has never been uttered once, by anyone, on ##csharp on freenode in all of that time. Should I post the 250MB log file? Also btw I didn't start using Crusher as nick until several months after that log was started. 
Hey, same here! Unfortunately, somebody else made Hangman =(
I used to lie a lot when I was younger. I got caught in a pretty big lie that cost me personally and professionally, this was probably in 2003. Since then I have not told a major lie and all my secrets are known, a few of them are closely guarded among close friends but for the most part I'm an open book. For example everyone knows I'm bi-polar and have been hospitalized in the past. My clients know this. I'll be honest sometimes I bring it up during the interview phase, most of the time I only tell them after they've made the decision to hire me. The real question is why would you lie? Why would you go out of your way to high jack a thread just to try to make me look bad? What have I done to you to make this personal? I don't troll you, I don't attack you, in fact on more than one occasion I've helped you with your problems. I'm uploading the log, unfortunately I have a slow internet connection, but I'll post a link to it tomorrow morning.
Ad impressions/revenue on Windows / Windows Phone is a joke. Anyway, as a totally amateur/spare time developer (I am not a developer in my day job) I make about $100 per month (combined) from my apps on Windows, mostly from Windows Phone, however I've noticed my income for one app has jumped significantly after making a UWP version. The only thing I've published on non-Windows platforms is my game Game of Clowns on Android and Amazon, and it has made pretty much nothing on those platforms. If you do make Windows apps I wouldn't bother with ads. And don't lowball the price. I noticed the same number of purchases/conversions at $1.99 as at 99c. People mostly won't pay for apps, but those who do don't mind paying a fair price.
I would say knowing some patterns (eg MVVM) and a knowledge of databases is also a good starting ground. 
&gt; for anything beyond web-apps? * [Unity Development with VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/runtimes/unity) * [Office Add-ins with VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/runtimes/office) * [Creating and Debugging C# Console Apps with Visual Studio Code on OSX](http://michaelcrump.net/creating-and-debugging-console-apps-with-vscode/) * [Can I use VSCode with CoronaSDK or CoronaCards?](http://www.tobiahz.com/2015/05/visual-studio-code/) 
funny haha
Generally comes with time. Your less successful peers will tell you "life gets in the way"; the reality is that success is not purely about working or not working, rather achieving a good work life balance that brings you happiness. &amp;nbsp; And then you have kids. ^which ^is ^great
http://1drv.ms/1UJ44zl &lt;-- log file
Well he probably meant `Animal[]`, and then it will compile. But yeah, array covariance is sometimes problematic and arrays should of course not be used.
Generally, the default value of *any* type is whatever results from filling it with 0 bits. For `DateTime`, for example, this is `DateTime.MinValue`, where for `int` it's 0.
Whatever, Gibbs. ;)
Im definitely trying... But time is a big constraint. I have to learn the new UWP stuff, specially when it comes to UI I need to learn a lot... Backend is no problem . It's the UI im stuck with...
Do you stand by your statement? &gt; In todays environment work assignment is a unilateral contract where the employer takes ownership of an individuals ability to make decisions.
Don't you need to buy an Authenticode certificate to publish Microsoft Store apps? When I looked into it a number of years back, they wouldn't event accept the cheaper Comodo certs. IIRC, it had to be one of the expensive ones from Symantec or Thawte. Has that changed?
Yep, I make games for windows and Xbox during the day. And windows store games and apps at night.
Wow we have a app with 2000k downloads and it makes us 9k a month and has for over a few years now.
I make about 9k a month from one apps ads. I haven't gone uwp yet, that update will come out next month. I have lived off of the windows store for a few years now. That app has about 2,000,000 downloads over the last 3 years.
Nice. I can barely get any ads to display in my apps, but they are quite niche with modest downloads (low 5-figures). The forums are full of complaints about low ad impressions/fill rate, but I suppose those getting good income from ads aren't going to be on the forums complaining :)
No, you don't need anything of the sort. You need a (free I think these days) dev account and that's it. I've published on the Store since the WP7 and Windows 8 and I've never needed any certificate. I'm not sure where you got that info from. Perhaps it's a requirement for publishing Win32 app links in the Windows 8 store?
From what I see/hear, Windows apps are a better way for small developers to make a little bit of money (it's nigh impossible to make an impact on iOS/Android without advertising), but the big bucks are on iOS and Android (obviously that's where the users are).
Sorry, I straight up don't believe you. What is your app? Are there even enough windows phone users to make 9k a month if *all* of them used your app?
I recommend watching Lessig's [TED Talk on what stifles creativity](https://www.ted.com/talks/larry_lessig_says_the_law_is_strangling_creativity). I suspect reality is more complex than you envision.
Are you looking for something like this? http://imgur.com/XVAXaos If so, right click project in the solution explorer --&gt; View --&gt; View Class Diagram. Let me know if that is what you're looking for. Regards, 
http://www.commitstrip.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Strip-Side-project-650-finalenglish.jpg
Thank you so much for that. That looks so interesting. But this is not what I am after. I am looking for something will take the code in the class file and turn it into a flowchart with diamonds for the if statements and so on. But still, thanks very so much for showing me that. It is so interesting.
So what's the app called?
Something I do, for those who like Entity Framework Code-First AND having some control over the Database Schema, is use [Entity Framework Code First Reverse POCO Generator](https://efreversepoco.codeplex.com/). I deal with integrations between a lot of Off the Shelf software that I don't have control over the Databases for so it works really well for me there. Reverse POCO Generator would also be helpful if you wanted to start off with building a Database before coding against it, and you still wanted to take advantage of Entity Framework. I believe the author is working on a Pluralsight course on it too.
The class diagram he showed does exactly what you are asking. The arrows in the top right corner drop down to provide the properties and methods and relationships are automatically added.
You need Visual Studio Ultimate to generate sequence diagrams: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee317485.aspx This is sadly not available in VS 2015 because the move to Roslyn for the editor removed a lot of the infrastructure that powered the Generate UML features.
Removed and locked. Post is not appropriate for /r/csharp (there are various job posting subreddits you can post to instead), and discussions are generally doxxing. Even if the OP is open about things, it's arguably going too far in the context of Reddit's rules.
Currently working fulltime on a cross platform app but planning to update my existing Wp app to UWP soon. This app has about 600,000 downloads overall &amp; close to 30K reviews with average 4.5 star rating. 
Hey, thanks for spotting the error. I originally meant `Animal[]` not sure when it changed.
Except that isn't what he is asking for. He wants something that will take pre-existing code and generate something similar to [this](http://imgur.com/wSBqYhB).
Oh, knowing more is definitely a good thing. But if he's just trying to learn how to make apps, then he doesn't need more than one language.
You hardcoded the page number in the click event. You need a hidden field to keep track of the pgNo you are on. I'm not sure if this is where you are having problems. 
This is the only way to do it. The process is too complicated for there to be a good, free solution. Even when you pay for something there is still going to be a lot of manual work to do. I'm not saying that Sparx is the only way, but buying a good package is.
In my opinion there are no solid alternatives but have a look at [MonoDevelop](http://www.monodevelop.com/) 
I would resolve the problem that is preventing you from using Visual Studio. However there are a few alternatives like SharpDevelop http://www.icsharpcode.net/OpenSource/SD/ 
Ah, this perennial post. The author mentions Eric Lippert, but fails to read his blog post on the exact question https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/ericlippert/2011/04/20/uses-and-misuses-of-implicit-typing/ 
I have tried to resolve the problems with the updates, even tried to update the C Runtimes manually but it kept giving me the error that the version wasn't for my Windows. no dice.
Btw is that 2 million downloads? 
Thanks, was considering PowerShell but most of the hits I got are to convert CSV to XLS as opposed to extract data from CSV into various worksheets in a single XLS file. Will look into it though, C# isn't looking so bright. Trying to figure out the Interop library but the installer seems to be messed up.
Here is an example of INotifyPropertyChanged https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms229614%28v=vs.100%29.aspx?f=255&amp;MSPPError=-2147217396
I like the way you think, I think I'll have to consider your 'recommended' way on my next large project.
something like this should work: void Main() { var test = new List&lt;Test&gt; { new Test{A = 1, B = 2, C = 3, D = 4}, new Test{A = 2, B = 2, C = 3, D = 4}, new Test{A = 3, B = 4, C = 5, D = 6}, new Test{A = 4, B = 4, C = 5, D = 6}, }; var z = test.GroupBy(x =&gt; new {x.B, x.C, x.D}).Select(g =&gt; new {g.Key, Values = g.ToList()}); } public class Test { public int A; public int B; public int C; public int D; }
Honestly if the purpose behind this is to learn the code I would recommend doing it yourself, get a copy of visio or dia and just go line by line through the code yourself. It will teach you how to read code and understand the application better. 
He wants to show logic not relationships. Class diagrams can be a very useful UML tool, although honestly I look at it as more of a documentation artifact than a design artifact, as I find it easier to prototype the classes/interfaces in code and generate the diagrams. Generating the code from a class diagram (reverse engineering) is also debatably a valid use case. Rational built a whole suite around the concept in late 90's and it was popular for a while. It fell out of practice because of both the complexities of keeping the code/diagrams in sync and the fact many programmers found that coding was faster than drawing when it came to prototype architecture. He's likely looking for a combination of Activity (http://www.sparxsystems.com/resources/uml2_tutorial/uml2_activitydiagram.html) and (Sequence) http://www.sparxsystems.com/resources/uml2_tutorial/uml2_sequencediagram.html. Activity describes low level logic decision in terms of activities, generally without respect to component or class artifacts. Sequence describes execution flow through objects and components. In a Unified tool the components in the sequence diagrams are linked, or instantiations of, to their artifacts in class and component diagrams.
It doesn't really sound like you wiped your hard drive. Did you just try to selectively delete stuff? Cause that will never work. Move your documents, projects and so on to Dropbox, reformat your hard drive, and install everything fresh. If your OS install is fucked, you have problems lurking around every corner. You can't just find a whole new IDE and hope everything else just sorts itself out. Format. Reinstall windows. Update windows. Reinstall VS. 
You are barking up a performance nightmare tree. Be careful.
I think what you need to use is GroupBy(). The problem with what you are doing, is that you can't select a single A field for distinct B,C,D fields because there might be multiple records that have the same B,C,D fields. What will be returned by GroupBy is a list of key, value pairs with the key being the distinct B,C,D and the value being a list of all records that match the distinct B,C,D and their corresponding A values. At any rate, here is the syntax: entities.GroupBy(e=&gt;new {e.B, e.C, e.D}).ToList();
I like the idea of leaving them as POCOs (that's what I have done up until this point) but isn't it annoying that now you'd have twice the number of files because you need a ViewModel for each Model component? I guess it isn't a problem, I just need to get better organizing my solution files into folders
Dude. Just reinstall Windows.
Linq is always a performance nightmare if you aren't careful with what you are doing. Heck, SQL in general is pretty much the same way.
Yeh - this is where libraries like AutoMapper come in. Believe me though, it is best to separate models and view models in the long run. It has to be a very simple use case to justify having one class for both rolls. As soon as you start adding your commands and stuff you'll start getting annoyed at the lack of separation, and potentially run into lots of gotchas when the UI is acting on your models.
Well it all depends on your object's lifecycle. For read only POCO's are fine, but generally you need a INPC implemented to act as an intercept between the POCO and the logic. For example if you're editing a Vehicle that shares a reference between a display artifact and an editor. Or knowing when your Model is dirty (not committed to data store). Knowing when you can get away with a POCO is actually a pretty advanced design decision. It is far less daunting when first starting out with MVVM to wrap everything in a ViewModel. But your Business layer consumed entities probably should not implement INPC, that should be a UI only concept. There are state machine scenarios where this is not the case, but even then your business layer should implement INPC at your data layer shouldn't.
How could i do the until all of data is fully loaded? 
The code duplication is problematic, both in terms of unnecessary typing, and also in terms of keeping ViewModels and Models in sync. Personally, I use code generation to generate Partial Classes for the ViewModels based on my Models. FWIW, I use Domain-Driven Design for my Model, which leaves me with Entities and Aggregates in my Model. My code generation generates partial ViewModels for all of my Entities (and Aggregate derives from Entity, so all those too). I view these generated ViewModels as a starting point. Sometimes I can simply add to the partial class, and sometimes it is necessary to subclass the ViewModels further, but the code generation covers all of the duplicate code where I'm simply wrapping properties on the models, leaving me to focus on the interesting stuff that happens in ViewModels. Also, as an aside, since you mention being new to MVVM... I used Prism for years, rolled my own MVVM basics for some simpler projects, but once I switched over to [Caliburn Micro](http://caliburnmicro.com/) I've never looked back. I think it's a vastly superior library. If all it did was remove all of the binding cruft from the XAML Text="{Binding SomeProperty}" it would be worth it, but it does a ton more. Worth taking a look at and even if you can't use it, some of the ideas it embraces will likely improve your thinking/understanding of MVVM.
When was the last time you had to code for 10 hours straight? How about at least 40 hours in a week? 60 hours a week? The student life isn't close to what it is in real life.
there are a few factors. disclaimer that i'm a pretty atypical person in the industry. the industry is already heavily biased toward working more than 40 hours a week. you're often seen as lazy or a poor worker if you don't work 10+ hour days 5 or 6 days a week. i've never agreed with this. 40 hours a week is already pushing a healthy work/life balance in my eyes. so, i do everything in my power to ensure i only work 40 hours a week. part of this is obviously not doing anything work related when i'm not on the clock. one of the major reasons to work on side-projects at home is to learn new tech and keep up-to-date on the ever-evolving programming world. i'm fortunate to have a job that allows me to do research and prototyping at work. i have smart superiors that also do most of that work for me. i have no real desire to get promoted into a senior position. i enjoy being told what to do and doing that well way more than i enjoy driving projects or making decisions. so, again, no real need to do more work at home. i'm also extremely comfortable in a stable job. i don't have to worry about applying for new positions. i don't need to build a portfolio with side projects to prove my worth to anyone. i have 5+ years of experience now at a well-respected company in the industry. this should be enough to secure a position should i need one in the future. programming is also not a 'passion' of mine. i'm just decent at it, find it relatively easy and the jobs pay well enough. passion is a buzz word that gets thrown around a lot. people feel the need to prove they're passionate about programming by putting in extra hours and working on side projects. i don't feel that need at all.
Maybe check this out: http://closedxml.codeplex.com Edit: Closed XML is IMO an easier, simpler way to use Open XML. The code is easier to understand and more succinct. 
i need to create 4 applications that will work on the one form application and yeah they are .net i need to have a notepad a browser a calculator and a application of my choice but i hate form applications i am much more of a console application person haha 
 float radius = 1; for(float angle=-Math.PI/2; angle&lt;=Math.PI/2; angle += 0.01) { float x = Math.Cos(angle) * radius; float y = Math.Sin(angle) * radius; // Here you do set your objects x/y coordinates to x and y // If this is supposed to be moving something you should probably have a delay here as well? } Note that in Unity I think you usually updates the position during some sort of Update() / PhysicsTick() method and you should probably do some calculations to find out how far the "angle" youve come since you started and not use a for loop as you suggested?
Thanks for the great link. Another great piece by Eric Lippert. I don't see how reading that post changes mine in any possible way. Can you help me figure it out? What would you have changed?
It's about how to do it, not have it done for you.
Thanks! That was an excellent starting place. Using that and a similar article [here](http://odetocode.com/blogs/scott/archive/2015/01/15/using-json-web-tokens-with-katana-and-webapi.aspx), I was able to secure the basic WebAPI 2 template using my on-premises username/password store. Thanks again! 
It's about learning in general, which is all ways
I can inspect the IPrincipal inside tje controller but the claimsprincipal isnt available in the roleprovider context. So i have to find where it calls the roleprovider and change it from username string to user principal. That or add my own injection of roles where it creates the principal or wrap every method with said principal role check rather than using the roles data attribute.
I recommend using Excel Package Plus for anything Excel related. https://www.nuget.org/packages/EPPlus/ Unless there's a specific reason you need to use gembox.
https://msdn.microsoft.com/EN-US/library/office/ff478153.aspx
This is probably a dumb question, but if you don't like the tool why not use another one. I'm not trying to sound like a smart ass. I'm just genuinely curious, and it's hard to show emotion through text. 
Yeah Update(). I'll give this a try, thanks. I just need to use the for to first calculate points that is then stored into an array.
I've never tried anything like it, but my guess is that you will need to spawn a separate [AppDomain](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.appdomain%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) for each application and run it within that context. I don't see why these need to be separate running processes though. They could be built as their own separate projects (and compiled into their own separate assemblies) and still be run within a single WinForms application.
I know, was just lazy hoping he would get the idea
No you dont need to know C to learn C#. Knowing C will help you understand underlying memory management concepts and how things work a bit better "under the hood" but C# provides memory management and abstracts a lot of the difficult things you need to do in C (pointers, malloc, etc). C# comes from the C family of languages but isnt C whatsoever. 
Block World Free was developed by "2.0 Studios", based in Australia, they claim to be a "passionate team", not an individual developer. /u/Danthekilla is a moderator of /r/2POINT0STUDIOS so I'd say there may be an element of truth to his words. &amp;nbsp; Truth or dare aside; if you are that successful, what would you say are your tips for ensuring successful user to ad click conversion?
thank you. i have basic understanding of C,assembly and comp architecture but i am no by any means master. Do i need to master C in order to be programmer ?
I know. I did it in highschool. Forgotten a lot of it in the past 3 years.
Howdy there. I have to deal with this kind of stuff all the time, so hopefully my solution is of some use to you. [This dll](http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/11698/A-Portable-and-Efficient-Generic-Parser-for-Flat-F) is super-useful for iterating through .csv files. Take a look at this function: private DataTable UploadFileToDataTable(string filepath) { DataTable thisTable = new DataTable(); using (GenericParserAdapter parser = new GenericParserAdapter()) { parser.SetDataSource(filepath); parser.FirstRowHasHeader = true; thisTable = parser.GetDataTable(); } return thisTable; } Then I use [SpreadsheetLight](http://spreadsheetlight.com/) to simply pop that datatable into an .xlsx file: private void SaveDataTableToExcel(DataTable table, string filepath) { SLDocument thisDoc = new SLDocument(); thisDoc.ImportDataTable("A1", table, true); thisDoc.SaveAs(filepath); }
Please elaborate. How is it misleading? What would you have changed?
Can you show us some of the output?
Ah, I see. Thanks for clearing it up. BTW nice tutorial
From what I've read online after posting this, it doesn't seem possible or at least easy to pass in a dynamic parameter to the constructor like I was asking. However what if in the TruckEditor UserControl there is a property of type Truck which when set would populate all the controls with the Truck's details. So all I would need to do is databind the Truck property in the DataTemplate to the SelectedVehicle parameter? I can't seem to figure out how to do that though.
Yep, I had a similar task but with the MySQL Connector. What I've read you can override the user table to get all the cells you want. But this works not like intended with the connector so I choose the easy way and implemented the auth system like Microsoft wants. This way I have a separate user and roll management out of the box and can keep all my database first stuff untouched. Edit: I did this in the existing database. 
I'd like to find a good way to split my project in multiple assemblies. Having to have the views all in the web app is a pain for me if I want reuse between projects.
It's been replaced by System.Runtime.Caching since .net v4: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.runtime.caching%28v=vs.110%29.aspx
Yes, 2,000,000 downloads  
Yeah I am one of the owners of the business. We are based in Melbourne and have been going for about 6 years now. Honestly we never focused on click rates or anything at all, blockworld was out first try at making a "free" game and was our first time using ads, so we basically just worked on the game for a few years and then in the last few weeks before launch we chucked the ad systems in. About the only solid tip I can give would be to make sure you are always showing ads, if our pubcenter ad fails to fill we then try to get a smaato ad and if that fails to fill then we show a clickable house ad advertising one of our other products.
When you add a new EF model to your project, it will automatically create a new local DB, if I recall correctly.
You can still have shared partial views (under features/search if you'd follow the example). I think that if everything is shared and interconnected though, there's a problem with how the application is structured. I usually find that features are quite clearly separated.
Sure thing! These are both beautiful little libraries that are really easy to use. Are the csv files formatted with the same headers? What I would do in your situation is call UploadFileToDataTable for each file, merging them all into one DataTable with DataTable.Merge, and then call SaveDataTableToExcel. SLDocument.ImportDataTable's third argument (true in my example) is a bool asking whether or not to also import the DataTable's headers. So if your file already has headers you can just set that to false. SpreadsheetLight also lets you open up already-existing excel files if you need to do that as well. 
Yeah. I know the feeling - waiting for that myself :D
Sounds like you are trying to treat very different types of caching in the same way which might make things more complicated than less. For example - a web application on multiple web servers might make use of in memory caching (System.Runtime.Caching) for frequently used readonly lookup data. However user's session data is cached in DynamoDb so that all web servers have read/write access session state to allow load balancing between servers. The two different caching types require different approaches to population, expiry etc. I would want to understand your use cases before trying to build something that solves every possible problem.
Nobody has mentioned it yet, but Random.Next(1,100) is actually going to generate a random number from 1 to 99. You can read a bit more about how it works [here](http://tinyurl.com/zy5arqu), but essentially the 2nd parameter will return one less than the value you specified, so if you wanted to get a random number from 1-10 you'd need to input (1,11). 
This is what we do. We just inject ObjectCache into everything. Get/Set/Add/Remove is all we need. Anything more complex of a caching object from a consumer basis (i.e. the code actually inserting and retrieving items) gets away from being a cache and rather becomes something else altogether. Use DI to configure it how we want, but our implementation is pretty simple. MemoryCache during dev, redis backend in prod. If we ever wanted to do something along the lines of "these classes get redis, these are get inmemory, etc" that's easy enough to configure via the container. 
Could consider VS Code or an editor for which OmniSharp works. I've been using VS Code as a lightweight alternative to VS for a lot of small tasks. Enjoying it. 
That's what the configuration is for. Basically a provider is a fancy word for an interface or abstract class that the factory creates from configuration data. You design your application so each concept of cache can have a different strategy and provider. The more named concepts you define the more granular control you have over your application. EPL was devised before IoC became popular, but effectively my approach would be to have my relevant components take an ICacheStore in my constructor and resolve them to a specific name in container setup. Although that breaks down when you have a component that requires two caching strategies, although that's potentially a design flaw. So the same package running in IIS might be configured differently then one hosted on a client desktop, all it knows is it has a cache, it doesn't care what that cache is or how its managed. At the end of the day it checks for an object with an associated, if its there use it, otherwise do what u need to do to get it and cache it for future use. This type of approach was popularized by Enterprise Library when it was first released in 2004 or so. Since then the most popular components, data and logging, became upstaged by newer technology and at some point active development stopped. 
&gt; take an ICacheStore in my constructor You may be doing this backwards. If you want to, say, store Sessions in memory, User metadata in the database, and Product data in a MMapped file, pass *three* ICacheStores into your constructor, one for each. For testing scenarios with little data you can pass the *same* object into all three parameters if you want or, when running in production, pass the appropriate implementation (determined by your IoC container or whatever).
We mainly build everything from scratch and have our own in house game engine that is built on DirectX 11. We also use a very modified version of monogame for some things. We have tried making a few unity games but have found that while it is great for prototyping, actually finishing a product and applying that last layer of polish is very difficult. I also feel very restricted by unity sometimes. I generally prefer low level control that something like monogame provides.
that's considered normal. your code itself is using very little resources, however task manager is also displaying the memory required for the libraries your project is using, e.g. net45 and WPF.
Ok? What is your point?
That's the problem of every managed language
I guess it might look surprising, I remember thinking the same. How was your day staulkor?
yep 40mb for a blank project.. 
If you were writing something extremely performance intensive it might be an issue but I mean extreme. Like if you were writing an algorithm to look for patterns in dna, or an intense physics simulation. But for 99% of apps the user would not notice the difference between a c# wpf app and something more efficient like c.
Run SQL profiler and check out the SQL statement that gets generated by entity framework. Then run the execution plan and compare it to just writing the SQL by hang. It will be slower.
ahh yep.. i am thinking of user's using 1GB of ram.. 
it's a way to control complexity and enable compose-ability in large applications (but may seem/be silly in small applications). it can also be [SOLID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOLID_(object-oriented_design\)) applied to application architecture (instead of just classes); [onion architecture](http://jeffreypalermo.com/blog/the-onion-architecture-part-1/) is a way of doing so explicitly.
What exactly are you missing from the enterprise library version? Microsoft themselves deprecated the caching block in enterprise library 6 and told everyone to use the functionality built in the framework: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff664753%28v=pandp.50%29.aspx In that sense, the System.Runtime.Caching code is actively maintained like you asked. 
Not yet but I guess 40mb is acceptable, so this is good already.. I will try WTL and see if I can replicate the functionalities on it. Really thanks for taking time on this issue.. Learned a lot!
What if you have a function F with return type Anima[] but returning an array of dogs? Using var in the function will work fine. Using var = F() will also work fine. And I would still get a runtime error. Your _solution_ isn't solving the covariance problem.
A blank project loading the .NET framework and a very very powerful and complex GUI library.
must things are "shared partial views" and even if a partial view is not shared , are you sure in the future it won't be? you don't split by features because they change and rearranging is a pain. 
You don't need to pass anything in any constructor - give me a bit to get my morning work out of the way and I'll give you an example :)
Unless you are speaking about the WinRT one, the calculator has always been a Win16/32 application.
Sorry, but I have to respectfully disagree with both you and the author of that blog post. Sure, people can go overboard with mocks just like most other programming tools, but the presence of mocks doesn't mean your system is poorly designed. Trying to test a system that has a 1 million+ line code base is daunting. Even when every developer who touches it treats SOLID principles as the law, you have to separate the pieces from one another during unit tests in order to be successful (and retain your sanity). Mocking out file IO and database access is the classic example. If you aren't doing that, you are doing it wrong. When you are working on a GUI that uses Model-View-Presenter and you want to test the presenter, if you aren't mocking out the view, then you are doing it wrong. There are more examples I could give.
Have a look here https://github.com/dominicshaw/MVVM-ContentPresenter-Example/ You'll see the idea is that the selected item is bound to the content presenter - the work is done by the datatemplate to tell the contentpresenter what to do. If I've got the wrong end of the stick, let me know and I'll see if I can help.
Well, you'll want to iterate over it and keep track of what the last entry/entries were.
What do you mean by iterate over it? Sorry if thats a silly question--- only been coding a few months.
Simple. Turn your array into a String and use scoreString.Split('O'); Will return an Array of Strings for each X So on your example of XOXOXOXOXX you get new string[] { X, X, X, X, XX } The length of each String int he array is the score. You just need todo a check to remove the single length strings. Edit: When doing the same for Split('X') you will get Empty Strings. You can use Linq to get this result. (Replace O with X to get the X Score.) int score = values.Split('O') .Where(x =&gt; !string.IsNullOrEmpty(x) &amp;&amp; x.Length &gt; 1) .Select(x =&gt; x.Length).Sum()
Thank you sow much! That was so easy. I'm finding I'll waste hours trying to figure out how to do something only to find it was super easy and the XAML code was so clean and I was approaching it from such a messy direction. Honestly can't thank you enough for this example! One question after looking at your code though. Do you always invoke on the PropertyChanged event? I am just curious about speed as I know invoking is more time consuming than just a method call. I implement INotifyPropertyChanged like this: ` public void NotifyPropertyChanged([CallerMemberName] string propertyName = null)` ` {` ` if(PropertyChanged != null)` ` PropertyChanged(this, new PropertyChangedEventArgs(propertyName));` ` }` But I do run into cross threading issues with binding when binding, is that why you invoke always? Edit: applogies on the bad code formatting, I can't seem to get the block code to work so I had to do inline code which obviously isn't easy to read. I'm not sure if it is the app I'm using that won't format the code block correctly, line it says all I need to do is indent each line with 4 spaces and it will show up as a code block but that doesn't work at all. Anyways, sorry if it is hard to read.
You can create scoreString from your array that stores the results. I assume you array is a string[] ? string[] UserEnteredValues = { "X", "0", "X" }; you can create the string from the above like so: string scoreString = string.Join("", MyArray); IN the above, change MyArray to the array that holds your X's and O's. 
my array is just a new array. to be literal, its mColors = new char[11}; So an 11 slot array. then as the player enters X or O, it places them into the array until it is full. trying to figure out how to use that with your example. I appreciate your time, by the way. Means very much. 
Okay, so now I'm trying to figure out how the check works.. --- int score = values.Split('O') .Where(x =&gt; !string.IsNullOrEmpty(x) &amp;&amp; x.Length &gt; 1) .Select(x =&gt; x.Length).Sum() --- is "values" something that I establish earlier? 
Ok, that is fine. Just pass mColors into the following to generate a String: string scoreString = string.Join("", mColors); After that, pass scoreString into my Linq Expression above and you can calculate the score. As you are fairly new, I must warn you against just Copy and pasting code, you wont learn from this. If this is a learning exercise then learn how to solve the problem. You may be better of doing what was suggested above and looping over your array using a **for loop** to get a better grasp on what you are doing and get your head around the logic. 
You're right. To be honest, I didnt want to simply copy and paste so I tried to understand it a bit more and got a bit confused. Just started working on a for loop to try to get a scoring system set up and it was a bit frustrating for me. definitely doing something wrong here and it's making me want to pull my hair out. Here is what I have so far-- for(int i = 0; i &lt; mColors.Length; i++) { if(i == 0) { } else if (mColors[i] == 'R' &amp;&amp; mColors[i - 1] == 'R') { total = total + 4; } else if (mColors[i] == 'R' &amp;&amp; mColors[i - 1] == 'R' &amp;&amp; mColors[i-2] == 'R') { total = total + 6; } However, it never gets to the instance where RRR could occur, because it just stops at 'RR' and adds 4 points to the score. Not sure how to get around that.. Thank you again so much for your time-- I am seriously getting so frustrated sitting here trying to figure this out and it feels like you are this ray of light saving my brain 
Sadly not everyone is a book learning and videos work better for some. That being said if you like watching videos look around on YouTube, PluralSight and MVA, as well as trial and error in VS.
Others already explained about what delegates/actions/events are, so I'll just answer your second question: ~~In essence, you're correct to be suspicious. The copy is completely unnecessary and can be removed. You still need a null check though.~~ ~~This is because a reference to the Action is passed to SafeInvoke() when the extension method is called. At this point, nothing can take that local reference away- the reference can only be changed elsewhere.~~ ~~To put it another way, the copy has already been done when the reference was copied on to the parameter stack for SafeInvoke().~~ EDIT: This may be very wrong advice, see /u/grauenwolf 's comment below and [this](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4618872/is-extension-method-thread-safe)
Oh, I figured it out! Doing this. Thanks for the advice! if(mColors[i] == 'R') { counter++; } else { if(counter &gt; 1) { total = total + counter * 2; } counter = 0; }
You are very welcome :-) In the vast majority of cases, you can safely call PropertyChanged from every UI-Bound property without worrying about efficiency. There are cases, i.e. when you are updating a lot of properties very often, it will be better to update the VMs and NOT call PropertyChanged, and then just refresh the grid, but these are few and far between. As a rule, if a property is changable by the user, I would always put PropertyChanged on. If you have a performance problem, it is almost certainly not a user changing the value but some background process, and that should be addressed separately. Your implementation of INotifyPropertyChanged looks very similar to mine (which is really ReSharpers and can be found in the Annotations.cs file of the project). Can you explain the cross threading issues a little more? As I understand it INotifyPropertyChanged events are dispatched to the UI thread so you shouldn't see much of that. I think it may behave differently with a grid though. If you can give me an example of a cross threading issue I can give you a solution :)
Did you dispose the main window?
Fluent Migrator looks interesting, useful and quite easy to use. I'll keep it in mind when working with a new database.
in linux?
There is no "event" syntax (except for add/remove property-style syntax). "event" is an access modifier like public/private/protected. += is not specific to events it works with random delegates.
I can second this. When I interview people I EXPECT them to say "I don't know" about some things. If I set a test and, when asked a question, you just sit there looking at me I will think you have no social skills. There is nothing wrong with saying "I don't know". You should probably follow it up with how you would go about finding out, and saying "I would google it first" is probably the right answer. Basically, be normal. No one expects to be interviewing Data from Star Trek. However, on the other hand, if I am interviewing specifically for a C# MVVM WPF developer and you put on your CV that you know it inside out. Do not come to the interview thinking you'll just find out about it later. I am obviously going to ask about it. Don't waste my time. Also, if you are going to be late for the interview CALL AND LET ME KNOW. I have sat waiting for candidates for up to an hour before. It's just good manners. And I won't even hold it against you. People are late sometimes. If you are also late for the second interview you won't be getting the job though. 
Do you need to optimize it? Is it running too slow? Are people complaining about running out of memory? If your users don't care then why do you? 
While this is interesting I would put it under "implementation details"
There is no such thing as an event delegate. Events are backed by completely normal delegates. You can use `Delegate.Combine` or even + and += on delegates. Somewhat confusingly, += on an event doesn't *have* to do the same as on delegates, although by default it will.
It sounds like some kind of "launcher". The 5 programs in the single window aren't actually running, but more of a graphical menu. 
Neither does var f = Foo; if (f != null) f(); 
yes exactly its just a menu really to choose other programs to run 
If that's the case, you don't need to actually have the programs running within your main form, you just need a screenshot image of the program. When the screenshot (could be in a PictureBox control) is clicked, you can use the [System.Diagnostics.Process.Start method](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.diagnostics.process.start%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) to launch the application.
I'm interested to hear what you find out. Especially if you test .NET Native, which I hear is far more aggressive when it comes to optimizations.
Your problem got me interested so here's a take on it that lets you repeat less code: https://dotnetfiddle.net/5iE1sp Obviously not an ideal implementation.
[removed]
I'm wondering if it'd be better to do something prior to an in person interview? I think a lot of people would feel put on the spot. I definitely think it's a good idea to have something code related. I used to try showing samples of WTF code and asking the applicant what was wrong with them, but I think they failed 95% of the time so I abandoned that approach. It's been awhile since I was a hiring manager though; these days I think I'd want to do a shared whiteboard online (or something similar) while doing a phone interview just to get a feel for things. Basically anything to remove the completely clueless without annoying the skilled.
what do you mean by that im only a beginner in c# programming 
Having you do code tests on something totally unrelated to real life business needs. Big red flag. 
&gt; I'm wondering if it'd be better to do something prior to an in person interview? I think a lot of people would feel put on the spot. Well the reason I prefer it on the day is that it's not meant to just be "can you write this function"- more like "how do you approach writing a function like this". It's not meant to be about 'putting people on the spot', no one's going to be stood over their shoulder with a stopwatch. We get them a cup of tea or coffee, then sit with them as they work it through. We're happy to help guide and give prompts if they draw a brain-blank, but if they have absolutely no idea how to even begin it's an indication that they're either a bit of a copy-paste programmer or are very crippled by performance anxiety. If it's the latter, I do feel sorry (being a sufferer of many anxiety disorders myself)- but we have to draw the line somewhere. A lot of people get frustrated too and it's hard not to feel sorry for them but if you're not feeling a little bad by the end of the day you're probably not being stringent enough. &gt; I used to try showing samples of WTF code and asking the applicant what was wrong with them, but I think they failed 95% of the time so I abandoned that approach. We do that too- although our success rate is a little higher than 5%. I'd say more around 15 to 25%. People are a lot better at reading code than writing it, ironically. Again, the idea isn't to come up with esoteric edge cases but examples of common antipatterns and code that could be candidates for improvement. &gt; It's been awhile since I was a hiring manager though; these days I think I'd want to do a shared whiteboard online (or something similar) while doing a phone interview just to get a feel for things. I actually think whiteboard coding is much worse- that's why we give them a computer with VS. It's a familiar environment and you don't need to worry about syntax. Plus we can see how well you use the tools- though that can also be learned on the job. &gt; Basically anything to remove the completely clueless without annoying the skilled. If the skilled are 'annoyed' by being asked to prove their competence, we probably don't want them working with us anyway. :P 
Who said it was unrelated to our business needs? Besides, why is it such a problem to ask a programmer to write some code? What's the difference between writing `Quadratic` and, say, the "total price" calculator for an online shop (e.g. shipping + tax + quantity items + discount voucher etc)? Both have inputs, an algorithm/rules that make up their implementation, and an output.
&gt; I wouldn't accept a candidate who couldn't write some simple function implementation with a computer + VS and no internet. Arbitrary criteria is arbitrary. &gt; It's a good one because it requires thinking about multiple return values, parameter validation, and what to do when there's no solution You either get some pretty low-bar candidates or you're wasting the time of talented engineers. These are mind-numbingly boring mechanical details -- anyone who's programmed for more than a few months can do this.
In theory that makes perfect sense, unfortunately in practice you need to know the names of the parameters on the component's constructor which are impossible to consistently enforce across different component implementations. It adds some work to when configuring the IoC.
It doesn't seem to have the same kind of built in configuration that the Caching Block had. Thanks for the link, clearly you are right. I think my approach is going to be to wrap that to provide better syntax for my developers.
In past projects I would modify a model's property from a different thread that was running in the background which would update the UI from that background thread because that is what fired the PropertyChanged event. Although that was in Windows Forms so maybe it isn't an issue in WPF? You have been super helpful in this, would you mind if I keep asking questions? Right now I am trying to figure out ICommands. I have a "Create Truck" button that when clicked I would like to create a new TruckViewModel and set it to the SelectedVehicle property within the MainViewModel so that I can edit the properties and then save it to the list later. I've looked at examples but I'm getting an XAML parsing error when I try setting the Command property to a static resource I created of the ICommand '&lt;Button Text="Add Truck" Command="{StaticResource addTruckCommand}" /&gt;' EDIT: I got it working I had tried creating the StaticResource inside a resource dictionary which was causing this problem. When I declared it this way it worked: ` &lt;Button.Resources&gt;` ` &lt;localCommands:AddTruckCommand x:Key="addTruckCommand"/&gt;` ` &lt;/Button.Resources&gt;`
The single-threaded semantics wouldn't change by in-lining it. And you have a race condition either way, so arguably the code is still wrong.
Its worth noting that .NET applications use more memory than they actually require to optimise the number of times it has to allocate more memory from the OS. A garbage collection may only free up memory if it feels it needs to, based on the amount of memory available on the system. GC.Collect can be used to force trigger garbage collection and may reduce memory usage providing your heavy objects are no longer referenced. Windows Apps also uses a slightly different framework from WPF that is newer and therefore could be more optimised for memory.
I'm all for code tests but I'm not sure the would be a good one. I've forgotten more maths than I know now, 15 years out of school. The only way that's a good test is if the job actually requires converting formulas like that to code.
What scm they're using. Git and svn are fine, VSS and TFS mean I won't take the job. I also ask what they're branching strategy is, if the make feature branches etc. If they aren't using source control effectively then there is always a lot of useful stuff they aren't using effectively either.
I believe omnisharp is now working in vim, emacs and atom, to varying levels of quality.
&gt; VSS and TFS mean I won't take the job VSS I totally understand, but why TFS??? In all the shops I've worked, exactly one used SVN. All the rest used TFS. I think if I had your criteria I'd struggle to find a position... 
&gt; It's not meant to be about 'putting people on the spot', no one's going to be stood over their shoulder with a stopwatch. As a person that easily feels put on the spot, I can attest that, unfortunately, the interviewers intentions rarely help. There will always at least be a teeny bit more stress compared to a working, non-interview situation. But then thats something that is pretty much unavoidable with any tech assessment. Its just best to acclimate oneself to that sort of situation in order to reduce the stress to a manageable level. That and hope the interviewer has sufficient understanding of how being observed can affect ones performance. &gt; I actually think whiteboard coding is much worse- that's why we give them a computer with VS. It's a familiar environment and you don't need to worry about syntax. Related to the above, the whiteboard style definitely puts you more on the spot. So giving the challenge on a computer definitely helps. &gt; If the skilled are 'annoyed' by being asked to prove their competence, we probably don't want them working with us anyway. :P Only reason I can think to be annoyed is if you feel the interviewer should know something is way below your current level. Like asking a guy with 25 years of experience and a demonstrated work history along with some excellent code samples, What is a function? Anything that would make them wonder, Dude, have you even looked at my rsum?
&gt; Plus we can see how well you use the tools- though that can also be learned on the job. this &gt; If the skilled are 'annoyed' by being asked to prove their competence, we probably don't want them working with us anyway. :P this too.. I'm tired of people resting on their laurels. I don't care that you've been doing this for 20 years, I need to know that you've actually learned something. I've met 20+ year vets that have been hacking for their whole career and don't really know anything useful, and I don't want it to have be an argument every time their approach is questioned by another team member nor do I want my team members spending all of their time cleaning up a new mess.
1 million line+ code base is daunting. That's why people are preferring microservices limiting code to 10k at a time. It's a better design and much easier to work with. You can mock out file IO and database access, or simply separate the two. A method can call out to the file system to read or save a file or you can a method that takes the result of a read file or database call and no mock is needed. This would also uphold the SOLID principle of closed of modification open to extension. I also standardly test both the GUI and the Model-Presenter as unit tests without mocking out either. Compose the Model-Presenter to create the viewable data test that, create the view to display viewable data test that. Here's an example of (GUI)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xc_ty03lZ9U] Here's an other example with (Emails)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sf16dPq2n3w] 
&gt; You either get some pretty low-bar candidates or you're wasting the time of talented engineers. ...we get some pretty low-bar candidates... 
I think asking them about specifics on the resume is a pretty straight forward way to draw out the BS. Oh so you put on here "REST web services"... instead of following up by asking them what REST is (which could be insulting to someone that actually does understand it), maybe ask them about the last REST service they've developed and then try to tie their experience with it back to what REST really is? 
Yes, I'm glad someone else sees it that way. The question is deeper than it first seems because it implicitly asks you to think about: * How you're going to return both values ... Do you return `IEnumerable&lt;float&gt;` and use `yield return`? Do you just return an array of length 2? Do you use `out` parameters? Or, with C#7, hopefully you might decide on using the tuple return types. :P * What do you do when `b * b - 4f * a * c` is negative? Throw an exception? Return a null `Nullable&lt;float&gt;`? * Did they think about what might happen if `a` is 0? Then you can increase the requirements. Tell them that the function will be used in a hot loop- what changes would they make? Do they try and reduce garbage by reverting to `out` parameters? Do they precalculate the costly square root so they're not calling it twice (once for each answer)? Do they replace an exception with another mechanism? A lot of "senior" guys have a lot of experience in the tools they use (databases, frameworks, etc); but either never knew or have forgotten how to write actual code. For some roles that isn't a problem (a software architect or project manager, for example), but questions like this can really demonstrate who's able to think critically (and react well to suggestions/changes) and importantly, *write code*.
I think it's important to acknowledge that hiring for a particular position isn't always simply about filling that spot by title. Sometimes hiring for a position is about filling a *gap*. For instance, my team needs another .Net developer, but we also have a need for someone with active [unmanaged] C++ skills because we have some dependency on legacy components written in C++. While the person we hire will be working in .Net most of the time, we would like to have someone that can work on those components from time to time because the *gap* that we currently have is no C++ experience. Hopefully they would tell you that in the interview which would explain the seemingly irrelevant quizzes
&gt; Or, with C#7, hopefully you might decide on using the tuple return types. Are tuples being made 1st class citizens in C#7?
Because it's an awful tool usually forced by management. The shops that use it generally don't know how to use source control so they don't notice it's shortcomings.
Hopefully! -&gt; https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/issues/347
I would expect to be informed up front if I'm interviewing for a .net MVC role but you want me to support a c++ application part time. Otherwise we would be waisting each others time if I have to desire to support that app. I've take JAVA off my resume to avoid interviews exactly like that.
I mean, you could always be straight and ask them. "So you want me to talk about references and pointers... is this something I'd be doing as an ASP developer here?" or "Do you do a lot of console programming in your web development?" -- I think this could help them clarify their intentions. I don't see any use in getting upset about how they ask you to demonstrate your skills; it could be that they just aren't very creative with the interview processes and I don't think that is a good indicator of the company as a whole. I'm not implying that we do this, it's just an objective opinion. One thing I do not tolerate in interview questions, however, is trivia. 
I can see the intent of the question, but objectively, I think this could come off a bit combative
To me, asking about specific code implementations that don't pertain to the job description tells me one of two things are true. They don't know what they need or they know what they need and don't want you to know because it's not pretty.
I would read it from C# spec 3.10 as available in my `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio 14.0\VC#\Specifications\1033` directory: &gt; Execution of a C# program proceeds such that the side effects of each executing thread are preserved at critical execution points. A side effect is defined as a read or write of a volatile field, a write to a non-volatile variable, a write to an external resource, and the throwing of an exception. The critical execution points at which the order of these side effects must be preserved are references to volatile fields (10.5.3), lock statements (8.12), and thread creation and termination. The execution environment is free to change the order of execution of a C# program, subject to the following constraints: &gt;  Data dependence is preserved within a thread of execution. That is, the value of each variable is computed as if all statements in the thread were executed in original program order. the value parameter `e` is a variable in that method, specifically according to 10.6.1.1 and .2 a "new storage location". I would read inlining of this method in such a way that this invariant is not retained as a violation of the C# language specification. Edit: the variable `e` is dependent on the fact that it is a reference to a fixed location for the duration of `SafeInvoke`. An optimization of the containing method is allowable such that this dependency is preserved.
All of their questions are easily researched or things I wouldn't be doing on a regular basis, or if the interviewer is a douche. For instance, I interviewed for a big data company about a year ago. The phone interview was standard, then there was a screen sharing interview with the typical kinds of coding exercises you'd encounter, then I was given a super easy "take home" question to answer whenever via email, then I was brought in for a face to face. At the start of the face to face a guy walks in goes "*sigh* Well I won't expect much but can you implement any sort algorithm for me?" When I told him I already did that in the screen sharing portion his response was "Yeah but you probably Googled it on a different machine I want to see if you can really do it instead of copy pasting it."
If I see that the candidate is not feelling good about the first question (takes too long thinking about it or has a "bad" reaction to it), I straight up tell him/her what the follow up is. It doesn't really change the outcome. Sometimes I even tell the whole thing as one question, depends on the vibe of the interview.
That's... pretty douchey. I probably would have asked them if that is how I can expect to be treated there, and then calmly ask to be escorted out.
I put it on the whiteboard then asked to be escorted out so he didn't think he was right.
If a startup says they have no competitors, it means they don't know who their competition is, which means their competition will crush them. 
Just my opinion, but that sounds like a really annoying question
In your opinion, what shortcomings does TFS have that aren't inherent in non-distributed version control systems?
I agree partially with this. However, I have asked a junior before to write a function that returns true if a given string is a palindrome, and he responded with a response similar to the above and refused to do it. I'm happy to tell someone what a palindrome is, even give them some strategies for figuring it out. It's a weed out question whose only purpose is ensuring that the candidate knows how to write a simple loop and reason out a problem, followed by explaining some code. For some situations, any old problem solving question gets me the information I want, and something closer to what we actually do is well beyond the scope of a junior level interview, and this response was a huge red flag to me as the interviewer. That being said, the part you wrote about interviews not depending on trick questions and weird quirks or using concepts that are not used anywhere in the code base (such as a question on trees when there is not a single tree in the millions of lines of code owned by the company) I can agree with.
Definitely need to ask about them. If they can show me that they were contract options where the project ended, fine. If it's with companies that contract to hire or, worse, noncontracted however, it's probably not worth the cost to bring this person up to speed only to have them leave a couple of months later.
Basic branches and merging. It doesn't track what has already been merged from upstream so whenever I pull into a local branch it forces me to remerge everything. [Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/43u30o/the_best_advice_i_have_ever_read_for_starting_a/czlgnhj) is a post from a few days ago that describes several of it's shortcomings.
I recently turned down a job offer whose interview process didn't include any form of technical skill assertions. I would have been tech lead of a small team, with people from random poor Asian countries, recently hired through the same process. Didn't wanna stake my career on them.
Oh yea, definitely no ties !!!!
Optimizations such as in-lining happen when the machine code is generated. 
&gt; the value parameter e is a variable in that method, specifically according to 10.6.1.1 and .2 a "new storage location". I'm not following. A "new storage location" isn't in the list of side effects or critical execution points.
No, we're talking about what happens when the code is actually run. 
I will do!
Yes, you're right grauenwolf; there's nothing here that prevents the kind of optimisation we're talking about imo. I'm gonna be interested to see what the outcome of my experiments will be! 
&gt; it means they don't know who their competition is OR worse- they don't even have a product
Right. But trivial properties aren't "evaluated" in the normal sense. Instead they tend to be in-lined into direct reads from the associated field. So from a performance standpoint you'd want to read it once and shove it into a register. But if you run out of registers, it's cheaper to just read it again (which has no side-effects) than to shove a copy onto the stack. So while your interpretation is 100% at the IL code level, I don't know what's happening at the machine code level. 
I haven't tried it, but it looks like what you want: https://github.com/kriasoft/AspNet.Identity/blob/master/docs/Database-First.md
I do the very same regarding "I don't know" and colors follow up with "how do you find out?" 
Sorry I could have quoted that better I guess. The last sentence in that paragraph and the bullet point was all that was really important here^(1). As inlining potentially alters the order of execution of a C# program^(2), an optimization is free to do so as long as the value of each variable is computed as if all statements are executed in the original order. The value of a reference variable is the memory location to which it points^(3) and since this is fixed in the case of `e` because of it being a value parameter^(4), it must remain fixed under the optimization of inlining. The "new storage location" bit is located between the definitions of value parameters and reference parameters in 10.6.1.1 and 10.6.1.2 as a detail of the way a value parameter is a "Fixed variable" for the usage of the address-of operator in chapter 18, Unsafe code. Nothing in the C# spec explicitly states that the semantics of a value parameter must be respected under an optimization of inlining, but that bullet point seems very pertinent to me. --- 1. I ended the quote at the bullet point when that section goes on for another half a page but didn't bother cropping out the initial text. 2. some instructions don't happen at all so I could see the argument that inlining is always out of order execution... besides, it is entirely possible that instructions inside an inlined method could be executed before instructions in the caller of that method and in such a case it is absolutely out of order 3. 4.2 second paragraph &gt; A reference type value is a reference to an instance of the type, the latter known as an object. The special value null is compatible with all reference types and indicates the absence of an instance. 3. 18.3 second paragraph &gt; Fixed variables reside in storage locations that are unaffected by operation of the garbage collector. (Examples of fixed variables include local variables, value parameters, and variables created by dereferencing pointers.) On the other hand, moveable variables reside in storage locations that are subject to relocation or disposal by the garbage collector. (Examples of moveable variables include fields in objects and elements of arrays.)
Interactions with the GC may make copying necessary. See https://www.reddit.com/r/csharp/comments/445eb0/can_i_get_a_reality_check_on_how_this_event_safe/czo7hm6
I am usually the one who interviews people and here is the view from the other side I guess: * You are late - you don't respect my time - I am not going to talk to you. * You have no idea what my company does or what is it called - I am not going to talk to you. * You tell me that recruiter just send you here to practice interview skills - I am not going to talk to you. * You tell me that WinForm is superior to MVVM and we should change to it. * You tell me that git is the only acceptable form of source control. * You tell me that you have no experience but will quickly learn and you are interviewing for a senior position. * I can't read what you wrote on the white board. * You tell me that you hate: "whiteboards", "working with team" or "doing documentation" * You said "I can do everything with computers" * You asked me if you would give your laptop to your brother and told me that someone had stolen yours, would you get replacement right away. All of the above is based on real life interviews. I btw have a position for a graphical end MVVM guy who would also maintain web site which I can't fill for some time, so if you are in Southern Ontario and want to work and know how to create some awesome UI with MVVM, let me know.
I really hate the obscure questions. No one cares about a particular syntax or some wrinkle in an old version that you find neat. If it can be googled, it will. Don't waste my time trying to showing off. That will just make me think you get off on minutae and lording it over people, which is a terrible impression. You are interviewing me for my experience and adaptability. If you want an "I don't know" ask me a real world scenario without enough information, which is the norm. Because I've done this before, I'll ask you questions that draw out the business, architectural, and technical specifications that I'll need to propose solutions. That will give you insight in how I think, communicate, pay attention, and learn. Which happens to be what you need to know most, besides my salary requirements.
I once went to an interview for a lead developer position where the director of development told me the following things: 1. We don't use source control. Everyone stores their code on their machine when it's done and then I personally merge it into production when it's ready. 2. We don't use an ORM. We thought about using Entity Framework but it has a .Remove function in it and I don't want my developers deleting stuff from our data. 3. We don't do code reviews because they are a waste of time and we're too busy. Only interview I ever just got up, thanked him for his time and walked right on out.
Right on about the trick questions. This thread, and the voting, makes me think most people here are inexperienced in either coding or jobs in general. They want to demonstrate book knowledge because that's their experience. How I feel about it: http://reddit.com/r/csharp/comments/44668n/share_your_red_flags_when_interviewing/czo8wfh
The git magicians are an irksome breed. They consider themselves superior but have rarely used more than a couple source control frameworks. They think it's cool because it's _hard_ instead of realizing that real mastery is making the complex look easy.
Exactly. This whole approach :" We have to do X because X is cool" is bogus. I like svn, we've used it forever at this point and I see no need to change it.
This would be a fun game if I didn't have real code that would potentially be impacted.
Apart from source control that sounds like most trading technology jobs. (Not that its a good thing)
Oh, man, I got sidetracked and came back to this thread thinking this was about red flags in dating. Everything made sense until I got to the part about recruiters...
I think you could rephrase the question to make it not sound so bad. Maybe something like, "What would a 6 need to learn to be at your level? What would *you* need to know before considering yourself an 8?"
&gt; What would *you* need to know before considering yourself an 8?" I really like that one. You can see if they are aware certain things exist, whether they know them well or not. In software dev knowing your full range of options is half the battle.
&gt; x+ jobs in x years where x &gt; 3, it raises eyebrows. If you ask this you better be interviewing for a full time position and not a 3 month contract.
Git is better than SVN for most software projects. If SVN is there and working then I can see why upgrading isn't a priority (we're in that scenario), but it should at least be on the to-do list.
VSS would routinely refuse to check in for us, it would pretend to, but not. I saw the same behavior at a number of places. God knows how many bugs were created by this type of thing that were then put down to user error. TFS was better, but it's branching and merging still suck, as I detailed below.
How often do you merge branches? At 10+ merges per day svn becomes a huge problem. For me "we don't need git" is a warning sign on interview. I could understand "we can't update right now", but "we are fine with svn" could be a sign of "our developers are not bright enough to learn git/our management don't care about development process/we are scared of complex technologies". 
Don't forget that 'await' will return control to whatever called it. Follow it back up the chain and see if you're just returning too far up the stack and exiting.
That's probably it right there. 
This is why we let it slide. They all looked like contract positions... we really should have dug into that to get a definitive answer, but at the time, management was more interested in finding a viable candidate, quickly.
It was, a few months back like Oct timeframe.
Using the tasks do more then one at a time. 
It can also indicate that they want to know how you'd answer the question. Asking a question isn't always about whether or not the answer is right; it can be about how you arrive at it. FizzBuzz is a great example. It has nothing directly to do with any kind of coding that someone would be paid for, but it demonstrates logic (and the phrasing of the requirements demonstrates the ability to digest and understand requirements rather than memorizing them). But if taking an adversarial approach works for you, then stick with it.
Please use the [MSDN C# Programming Concepts](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dd460655.aspx) (which is also very conveniently linked in the sidebar!). This is especially good for very trivial questions like the ones in this post. As to your particular questions, please see the following references: - [if-else](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/5011f09h.aspx) - [Console.Readline()](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.console.readline\(v=vs.100\).aspx) - [string.Split()](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.string.split\(v=vs.110\).aspx)
Is your question just about the string equality? The easiest test would be to do: ipToTest.StartsWith("192.168.1"); If I am understanding your question correctly.
It doesn't use a memory barrier, but that's not needed for delegates since they are immutable. It does only evaluate the left side once. Edit: Downvotes for stating facts, lovely :).
Could you give example, i dont quite understand &gt;~&lt;
The thing is that i want to be able to input a set ip like this; (tcp.RemoteEndPoint.Address == 192.0.0) so if it matches those first 3 values i can continue with my code
I found this in my browser history, I must have glanced over it too quickly, it might even provide the answer I am looking for; http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/607392/Custom-Role-Providers He's hooking into the PostAuthenticate method of the app which is the one handling/calling the role method. This is where I should change it from sending a string id to the proper principal instead to the method so I can iterate through the groups and find a match. I'll report back when I know if this solves it.
I'll file that under "optimizations that, while they might be technically correct by reading the spec in a certain way, would break so much existing code they'll never be implemented".
Right click, 'Set as Startup Project'. 
tcp.RemoteEndPoint.Address == 192.0.0, this is not a valid IP address. Just use an address ending in zero, for example 192.168.1.0, which is generally considered a reserved address meant to express the network and in the case of the example a class C network of 192.168.1.0/24. You can then compare string.StartsWith or do something like... http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2138706/how-to-check-a-input-ip-fall-in-a-specific-ip-range/2138724#2138724 https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv4#Addresses_ending_in_0_or_255 ** Edit: Down voted for this?
Either right click a project and 'Set as Startup Project' Or open your solution settings -&gt; Common Properties -&gt; Startup Project -&gt; Current selection. That way it will run the project you have selected. Anyway, this seems like a strange practice, the many console projects. Can't you just to use class libraries instead?
google knows how to do that ! Pics Photos - Related Pictures Homer Simpson http://s49.photobucket.com/user/mati_lbdp/media/Nacional/homer-simpsons-tricolor-foro.jpg.html http://csimg.shopwahl.de/srv/DE/2904737874403/T/340x340/C/FFFFFF/url/modern-popart-homer-simpson.jpg
If there's no difference then use the online shop example it's far more relatable to those who've not recently opened a math textbook.
The interview questions you've used in your examples appear to be designed to determine if you understand specific fundamental ideas in development/CS, as opposed to higher level concepts, specific frameworks, or specific languages. What does 'protected internal' mean: this one seems to be probing into whether you understand OO ideas [specifically 'hiding' implementations] and modularisation, at least how they're applied in C# A console app that traverses a directory tree: * Can you write a simple DFS traversal? * Do you understand recursion? [some people don't :( ] * Do you understand the basic syntax of the language you're writing in? [this is a proxy for real experience in that language] * ...this one just seems like a modern fizzbuzz to me. 'Tricky' code that wouldn't pass a standard code review: that's exactly the point. In this instance, you are the one doing the reviewing! These are great for discussion: it's not a personal attack because you couldn't immediately identify all the 'tricks'.
https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms155802%28v=sql.110%29.aspx I was close, its under deployment properties
Now I'm really confused. I installed SSDT, but nothing happened. So I downloaded and installed it again. Same story. I then had to amend the VS install to include Reporting (something or other). Now, I have no clue how to open SSDT as a package - it's not shown on the start bar anywhere, plus I designed the report in VS2015. Should this not simply be a matter of designing the report, then clicking Deploy and me specifying a path/server to deploy to? It seems the most complex part of Reporting Services is getting it set up to be consistent.
What would make you feel better about the second one? Spoiler: I'm that guy 
Just to make sure I'm not going crazy....Reporting Services is the tool to be used for this task, right? It's not just called Reporting Services and I'm misunderstanding what it's purpose is, am I? 
Ha, I actually had an interview last week that checked almost every single one of these boxes (they were in fact, using version control... but it was *subversion*) **edit:** didn't realize this subreddit was filled with such insufferable subversion loving cunts. Point taken.
Think I didn't explain it very well in my OP. I already Set As Startup Project to test my console application, what I want to do is execute the compiled code from another project within the same solution. For example, I could simply copy the compiled exe to my "main" projects folder and just execute the .exe files then, but now I need to keep moving files around. Maybe I am doing something a bit unorthodox 
Yes, I am creating the console applications because I have plans for a third party software to utilize them for something else. 
What's wrong with MyIP.StartsWith("192.0.0");?
&gt; Maybe I am doing something a bit unorthodox Yes. Normally there would only be one executable project in your solution. The rest will be class libraries (".dll-files"), to which you add references from your executable.
I'm just getting started with this tool as well, but it's referred to as SQL Server Reporting Services, SSRS. You may be able to get more help on /r/SQL also.
It would help to see more of the code I think. But yes, an event will likely exist for download progress and subscribing to it would allow you to update the progress bar periodically. 
Oh, well then its just the same as a class library. From your GUI project you can make a project reference to the consoleapp.exe and use the executable as a library
I don't think not using an ORM is necessarily a bad thing, but certainly not for the reason he stated. Those others...yikes.
If you know the file size of what you're downloading: (current file size)/(total file size) * 100.0. Have a thread watch for the file to change and update the current file size.
Then you still should be putting all the 'logic' in a class library to be referenced by your other projects and create a wrapper console executable that just calls Run() on your logic.
The UI will only redraw under certain event cycles, so while updating the value does update the bar progress, the UI will not redraw the bar to update that visually. There are a couple ways to go about doing it, but the preferred way is to use a [BackgroundWorker](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.componentmodel.backgroundworker.aspx) to run asynchronously and update your progress bar, which will trigger a UI refresh. The example code on that page should be a good starting place to see how it works.
That's easy, you just call: Someone.Elses.PalindromeLibrary.IsStringPalindrome("racecar"); 
I intend to go thorough and clean up that stuff once I get the time. As with the catch- throw, I've got a break point on that catch. I haven't tried to get it looking nice because simply put, it wasn't functional. 
It may seem advanced, but learning regular expressions will help a ton for something like this. Plus they're useful for many situations. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.text.regularexpressions.regex(v=vs.110).aspx
If you want to start multiple executables at a time (possibly all with debugging), you can access that functionality under the Solutions context menu (I don't remember exact item, but you can setup multiple executables to run). If you just need to run some of your own executables often (in context of developing so while using VS), like DB migration executable; then I found adding that int the Tools menu was best. For us it worker like "compile solution" -&gt; run DB migration. As for delivering the whole shebang.. What's worked for us in some way is adding PostBuildStep through all needed projects configuration. We have a .bat (this is ooooold arrangement) which copies needed files (and does some other things as needed) to a certain directory where you can the run the executables. One problem with this is that if you have libraries (through nuget or your own) then you need to copy them too. If you just have "Copy Local" on every reference and then xcopy *.* then you'll have a large amount of IO (in our case the build is 500M of binaries...) so that's not the best solution but would work in small scale. We copy only the result exe/dll, maybe .lib and then add the nuget dependencies "by hand".
Someone did, was just curious why. Sometimes people down vote when they disagree but don't discuss why they think it's not a good solution etc. 
How are you building the reports? I don't use Visual Studio for this, I do it in SQL Business Intelligence, in SQL 2008 R2. The name has changed in newer versions (SQL Server Tools iirc) but it's the same tool. The project looks like this... http://i.imgur.com/qw5Vkve.png We deploy the reports using a scripting tool to push the reports to individual servers. If you only have one server you can just publish them from the designer, but we have 40+ servers in multiple locations so that doesn't work for us.
I am in the same boat on this. How are you wanting to utilize RDLC files? Through the Visual Studio IDE (withing a web project) or the full blown Sql Server Reporting Services server?
Yeah, that's how I would do it. For what it's worth, you can add a reference to a .exe the same way as a .dll class library, to use the same code in your console app and GUI, but it's definitely not common to do that.
&gt; We don't use an ORM. We once had a guy come in and immediately walk out of the interview when he found out we didn't use an ORM. We even explained all the reasons why we decided against it and he still just left. I'm not sure why people are so terribly afraid of sql and ado.net.
Had to do a phone screen for a candidate last week. Tried 3 times, he never answered the phone. Recruiter reached out to him and he said he had to reschedule. This was something he should have told us after the fact. I called him the second time a few days ago. He answered, but said it was not a good time. I shouldn't, but I am, giving him a final try in about a half an hour. If he really wanted this job he would make time for the interview.
I've definitely had someone try to write the following before string.IsPalindrome(str);
I enjoy the flexibility of GIT, especially the ability to bounce between branches in a single folder structure very quickly. That being said, there are some real advantages to using TFS, chief among them is that outside of the nightmare of administration, it's stupidly difficult to fuck up as a user.
You need to take some time and read over the site [Got ReportViewer?](http://www.gotreportviewer.com/). The versions are slightly out of date, but know that RDL files are created via the Report Designer (currently built on VS2010 shell) and RDLC files are created normally through VS. RDL and RDLC formats have the same XML schema. However, in RDLC files, some values (such as query text) are allowed to be empty, which means that they are not immediately ready to be published to a Report Server. That means that RDLC files are designed to be run from the ReportViewer control within an application and bound to whatever data set you want to use. The control will ignore any connection information in the files because it expects the file to have a data set bound to it. RDL files on the other hand, are designed to contain connection information and to be published to the SQL Server Reporting Services engine that is installed as an optional package to a MSSQL installation. If you want to use RDLC files, you need to write an application that builds a data set, binds it to the report, and then renders the report to PDF and emails it to the users. If you want all of that done automatically, you need to use an RDL file that is hosted on the SSRS instance and set up a schedule and subscribe your users to that report.
&gt;Or pull long running branches into upstream ones. This is a bad idea in any source control system and infinitely more difficult to manage in GIT than it is in TFS. 
You're probably thinking of CSVHelper. Having worked on a few projects parsing CSV recently at work and having to manually parse CSV, meaning taking into account speech marks, valid commas in a field, all that bullshit, there's no way I would do that again. I'd use CSVHelper which does all that and was tested a lot by the developer.
Yeah I press at home, but I'm a 6 cups a day kind of guy 
&gt; CSVHelper You are 100% correct. As soon as I saw the logo I knew it was it. It's really awesome.
GASP It's better than nothing, but I personally prefer git.
Actually yeah lol, on a project I worked on a few years ago we had to write some work arounds for bugs in the JSON.Net lib (which were fixed pretty quickly) but both of them are awesome and I have nothing but respect for the Authors and Contributors.
I feel your pain.
What does the SQL your running look like? EDIT: check out 'async' and 'await' for use with those DB calls 
This seems like something is wrong. It's hard to say without knowing more. Are you using an ORM (entity framework, nhibernate, etc)? Is the DB local or remote? How complicated are the queries you're running? Have you run SQL Profiler to figure out if it's the DB or the software that's laggy? 
Good lord! This makes me feel uncomfortable. I once quit drinking caffeine of any kind (coke, coffee, tea) for about a year and a half. I don't remember why I quit it; it probably had something to do with my (at the time) severe anxiety and thinking I was going to have a heart attack. Or something. Yeah, that happened. Then I moved past it. Back to the story... I don't remember why but I decided I was going to drink some coffee again. I was at my girlfriend's house, so I told everyone I was going to make some coffee. I didn't know what the fuck I was doing, so I scooped several heaping tablespoons into the coffee machine and brewed it up. It was absolutely fucking delicious, and as it turns out way too strong for anyone else at the house to enjoy. So I drank the whole pot. Holy shit, I felt like I was trapped in a slow motion replay of things that had already happened, and I was able to speak extremely quickly and eloquently without tripping over any words - apparently though my speech was way too fast for anyone to understand what the hell I was actually saying. This went on for a couple of hours, and then when the buzz ended, I had little cognitive ability and I was nauseated for a good while. Can't really remember much more than that, but I continued drinking coffee after that day. Much less of it, and somewhat less strong, but still strong. My wife just introduced me to pour over coffee about four months ago. I get fresh beans and I swear it's like I never actually had coffee before. Highly recommend if you haven't tried some good, fresh beans. Thanks for listening to me ramble!
I don't think there's anything wrong with a software engineer being expected to know the problem domain through and through. Quite the contrary, in fact. Maybe I'm off base on this, but in my mind what separates a software developer / programmer and a software engineer is precisely this. The software engineer has the ability to learn and thoroughly understand the domain around which the software being built is to be modeled.
Agree, we worked winforms, this thing is been happening since .net 1.1 but as soon as we could we switched to MVVM and never looked back. People are strange, I mean there are a lot of examples of weird companies with their weird hangups, but trust me, I see a lot of strange coders come through my office. 
That would be awesome, thanks for the suggestion; subscribed!
20mm with 20 minutes session time == a popular game. Right? The problem is there, unless u have a popular game, your software is worth nothing on wp
I have no idea why I didn't see that before! Thanks for the idea man!
Well, no. Actually, any address looking like 123.x.x.x is likely to be in Asia, as the 123/8 range has been assigned to APNIC. You can see the list of allocations [here](http://www.iana.org/assignments/ipv4-address-space/ipv4-address-space.xhtml). So, if you just want to know which region the address has been assigned to, you only need to look at the first octet. Note however that this does not guarantee that the computer using that IP address is in fact in the region specified. For more information [this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geolocation_software) Wikipedia article might be helpfull.
I guess what scared me about the situation is: that he'd become territorial over his domain--and having been the established programmer that everyone loves, I'd always be subordinate to him no matter what. Of course, that depends on the environment, etc. I guess, in order for me to feel comfortable about working with "that guy", I'd have to feel that you are interested in bringing aboard a peer and not an underling. (There is no need for a "leadership" type role if there's only two developers.) I'd have to see that he has an active interest in working with others, an interest in learning from others (unless you are demonstrably so fucking good that you can teach me things, in which case that you are willing to teach), that you have up to date and relevant skills. Oh, and using source control, git, TFS, or SVN, but definitely not VSS or CVS. Yes, even if you work by yourself.
Subversion ain't so bad. I mean, prior to git, it was the go-to VCS. It has its pain points, mind you (eh... *.patch files*... ::shudder::) but it's not a bad VCS I don't think.
It's fine, but learning to Google effectively (and use MSDN) is an important skill.
Ok, so what you have going on here in the example that you've linked is that they are overriding how the form gets drawn. The Form1_Paint event tells windows to paint the Backbuffer and all of this is actually accomplished in the Draw() method. So to adapt this to what you want you have two choices: * Stick with this architecture and explicitly draw all of your controls. This is pretty much classic game programming and sucks because you have to reinvent the wheel all the time. * Create a custom class and move all of the paint, draw and backbuffer logic into it. Place that class along with your controls onto your main winform. (In WPF we'd call this a canvas) All of your drawing logic exists inside this new custom control.
Sounds like you are executing calls to the DB in your main UI thread. Do not do this, instead hand the work off to a background thread.
If your UI appears to be unresponsive and you have a very fast tight loop that is running during the unresponsiveness, try throwing in a Application.DoEvents(); in the loop. This will process all the window messages in the que. This method can have issues but if it fixes the issue you can try threads or deal with the loop differently.
Alright, I can imagine how to realise the first solution, and how annoying it would be, but I don't quite get the second one. Should my custom class inherit from something else? (Like a panel or something?) How can I add it into my window after I created it? Thanks for the quick answer!
Anecdotal, specific experience can sometimes give us a skewed view of reality. In my experience, I have seen engineers with a lacking level of domain knowledge end up building (very elegant, highly performing) wrong things. They can't tell it's wrong because it's what they were asked to build. This is what I have seen mostly, so it's easy for me to believe that this is more prominent in our field. I could be wrong! I honestly believe you can write better software that suits the business need (because, if you're not suiting the business need then the software product has failed) by living in the problem space enough to know when things smell funny. I mean, we're arguing semantics here, because "software engineer" is really a blanket title. There are different ways of excelling and specializing in the world of software development. I think there are merits to your mindset as well as mine. There is no "correct" one size fits all approach to moving up in our profession. My goals may differ from yours. I would love to become a consultant who can model problems and processes into good software, not being tied to any one given industry. To do that requires certain skills that I am currently trying to cultivate along with the software skills (systems architecture, design patterns, development best practices, etc. etc. etc.) . I'd love to look through some of your code though. You sound like an intelligent developer, so I'd like to see what kinds of things you could teach me.
Thanks man! I'll try to find it, your comment was helpful!
You're blocking the UI thread on network calls to the DB. The UI thread can't respond to local input until that network call is done, so you need to make network calls asynchronously. If you don't have access to `async/await`, then you will also need to make sure you have a mechanism that pumps any UI updates after the network call to the UI thread.
What does his forumla being wrong have to do with a "System.FormatException" error?
Your browser also gets redirected. The other url has an extra slash before ajax.
In an ideal world I wouldn't, but when you have customers on multiple versions you need to maintain a branch with their version, and any bugs need to be pushed upwards. Hospitals aren't on board with continuous deployment.
I don't know why but I love autonomous AI. At uni we used nn's to create little bots that explored and genetics to create mine sweepers. It's so satisfying watching them do there thing. Do you have any good resources for it? I find good AI tutorials hard to come by. You want to look at GDI for drawing to winforms.
How much data are you working with? Even if you're reading/writing hundreds/thousands of records you shouldn't notice a significant drop in performance. There is most likely a big design flaw with your database functions causing the drop in performance. If you're working with super large data sets (like hundreds of thousands to millions of records) you should try /u/Cadoc7's suggestion: async and await were pretty much exclusively designed to prevent intense processes from blocking the UI. 
I'll have to check that out :) Thanks a lot. The best thing I've made with it (this was a few years ago now) was a solid state machine to control warriors / archers / wizards in xna. Basically just spawn them and they fight automatically. So much fun to watch it once it works. If I get back into it I'll drop you a line for sure.
It still doesn't seem to work.
There's only one .svn folder per local copy as of 3-4 years now. It actually uses a single sqlite database instead of all those .svn folders.
It's number 250 or so on the game charts. When sorted by download count.
Post the code, without it we are just guessing. Thanks.
see: "SourceTree"
Not very helpfull, but be paranoid. If you are accepting credit card information, be PCI compliant. If not you accept all responsibility.
I'm not familiar with the objects you're using, but for the content of your post, you shouldn't lead with an "&amp;", so I would try removing that one character on the line where you assign to req.Content. Otherwise, you might want to try using something like HttpWebRequest: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.net.httpwebrequest.getresponse(v=vs.110).aspx 
Well first step is to make sure she's honest about what she put in her resume. 
I recently left a company just like that. Thought their process was perfect and anything new would just slow them down. I can say first hand that that mentality permeates *everything* they do, and only gets worse from there. 
Yeah, I actually did just that since I knew for sure that it works with `HttpWebRequest`, I just don't get it anymore. I've heard that it's a legacy class now. This one seems to work, but the other function I'm working on doesn't work with either of those (HttpClient, HttpWebRequest), so I'm kind of lost all over again.
Thank you, I'll check Fiddler in a few minutes. Here are a few JS/AJAX snippets I'm trying to reproduce: function editOn(button, trade, stext) { button.replaceWith($('&lt;a class="buttonright" onclick="noteSave(\'' + trade + '\')"&gt;' + stext + '&lt;/a&gt;')); if ($("#note").length != 0) { $('#note').replaceWith($('&lt;textarea class="standard" id="noteEdit" name="notes"&gt;' + $('#note').html().replace(/&lt; br &gt;/ gi, "").replace(/&lt;\/ a &gt;/ ig, "").replace(/\&lt; a href =\"http:\/\/steamcommunity.com\/linkfilter\/.+\"\&gt;/ig,"") + '&lt;/textarea&gt;')); } else { $("#tradediv").append('&lt;div class="message"&gt;&lt;textarea class="standard" id="noteEdit" name="notes"&gt;testtest&lt;/textarea&gt;&lt;/div&gt;'); } } function noteSave(trade) { $.ajax({ type: "POST", url: "ajax/tradeNoteSave.php", data: $('#noteEdit').serialize() + "&amp;trade=" + trade, success: function() { window.location.reload(); } }); } So, in short, the first function changes only the client-side, so I pretty much just skip it. The only important thing would be the `name` attribute of the `&lt;textarea /&gt;` that is created with this function. The secind function describes the general features of a request and if I understand correctly serialized textarea would look something like `notes=some_input_value`. Here's the function I've created based on that: public async Task EditDescriptionLegacy(string desc) { while (true) { try { HttpWebRequest httpWebRequest = (HttpWebRequest)WebRequest.Create("http://www.csgolounge.com/ajax/tradeNoteSave.php"); var cc = new CookieContainer(); MatchCollection mc = Regex.Matches(Account.CookieString, @"\s?([^=]+)=([^;]+);"); foreach (Match m in mc) cc.Add(new Cookie(m.Groups[1].Value, m.Groups[2].Value, "/", "csgolounge.com")); httpWebRequest.CookieContainer = cc; byte[] bytes = Encoding.ASCII.GetBytes("notes="+desc+"&amp;trade=" + Offer_id); httpWebRequest.Referer = "http://csgolounge.com/mytrades"; httpWebRequest.Headers.Add("X-Requested-With", "XMLHttpRequest"); httpWebRequest.Method = "POST"; httpWebRequest.ContentType = "application /x-www-form-urlencoded; charset=UTF-8"; httpWebRequest.UserAgent = "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/42.0.2311.135 Safari/537.36"; httpWebRequest.ContentLength = bytes.Length; var g = await httpWebRequest.GetRequestStreamAsync(); await g.WriteAsync(bytes, 0, bytes.Count()); g.Close(); var res = await httpWebRequest.GetResponseAsync(); res.Close(); break; } catch { } } } (or more like coppied it from some random source code and haven't really had a chance to change it a lot yet) So, what I'm sure about: * The first function works, so cookies are alright; * Request is sent properly, there are no exceptions; * There may be noo need for a few `HttpWebRequest`s settings; Do you know what causes this? If response is the same as when using `HttpClient`, the status code is 200, response.Content = "" and no actual changes were made on server-side.
Never use Application.DoEvents, it is trouble waiting to happen.
Glad I don't work under you. An interview should feel like an average day on the job. You're looking to see how good of an engineer I am. If that's what your average day is like, I want no part of it. 
The gist is that your loop should run until i == 0 and you need to change strVal from within the loop body
Thank you, this does help.
Ok, so really you're not creating or running a multitude of different programs. Even though each form has a different function (a calculator, a word processor, a web browser etc...), they're not actually different applications, they're just different forms in a single application. The main form can use a [ToolStrip](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/e58c44b8%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) control to handle the menus, and Panel &amp; Button controls for whatever functionality is required of them. The web browser is already in your Visual Studio toolbox as a control that can be dragged onto a form. A Picture Viewer form might make use of the PictureBox control I mentioned previously to display an image, and an [OpenFileDialog](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.forms.openfiledialog%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) component to allow the user to select an image from their hard drive to be viewed. The calculator will most likely be a TextBox control and a series of Button controls which are used to mimic the interface of a calculator. There are quite a few ways to actually perform the math evaluation/calculation for the calculator (hint: math eval is a good term to search for). The Word Processor would probably end up being built around a [RichTextBox](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.controls.richtextbox%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) control, as this allows for text formatting. Again, the OpenFileDialog component would be useful for allowing a user to open a file. Similarly, the [SaveFileDialog component](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.forms.savefiledialog%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) would help you with the Save functionality. An About form is really just any kind of form with some text or graphics, and it's typically displayed as a [modal dialog/window](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modal_window), meaning that it keeps focus and doesn't allow the user to do anything else with the program until they close it. I believe Visual Studio has an "About Form/Dialog" template built in. I think this should give you a pretty good start as to how to tackle your program!
Okay all, I've been reading your comments, and taking your suggestions, and this is what I have fixed so far. I'm hitting the hay for tonight, but I appreciate all the fast responses. Makes me happy not to get ridiculed for being new. :) Code to follow: public static void Main(string[] args) { string strSource = "SUPERcalafRAGIListicEXPEAlledoCIOUS"; string strVal; int intStrLength; intStrLength = (int)strSource.Length; //Console.WriteLine(strLength); strVal = strSource.Substring(intStrLength - 5, 5); //Console.WriteLine(strVal); for (int i = intStrLength; i &gt;= 0; i-=5) { if (strVal.Equals(strVal.ToUpper())) { Console.Write(strVal.ToLower()); } else if (strVal.Equals(strVal.ToLower())) { Console.Write(strVal.ToUpper()); } } And this is my output: ciousciousciousciousciousciousciousciousPress any key to continue . . . I will pick this up tomorrow. Thanks again!
It's a very useful and easy to use tool :)
It's not unconditional due to the `if (distance != 0) continue;`.
To be fair, the amount of whitespace often makes a difference between zero or more :p
Also, - Learn how to format code, - Don't use arrays. 
I would add that due to maintainability and readability reasons, adding curly braces is preferred even if there is only one statement.
Agreed. I mean the entire interview process is a crapshoot. Let's make a life changing decision based on an hour, nerve wracking, conversation. In a perfect world, the best hiring process, imo, would be a probation period at the end of which the person is hired or not.
 if (something == true) /* some comment */ ; { ThisAlwaysHappens(); }
And that's why you shouldn't pay your contractors by lines of code. 
Quick brief review: - There is no license file. If you put code on GitHub, you also should add a license. The current way it's open source, but no one is allowed to use the source for anything at all. - There is no solution file. You should always provide one. - Direction.cs, 1: All four namespaces are not required. They can be removed. - Direction.cs, 8: Do not omit access modifiers. Best practice is to always be explicit with the access modifier. If I see code like this I'm unsure whether the author wanted the default access level, or simply forgot to adjust it accordingly to the requirements. By always being explicit you avoid this kind of insecurity. - Program.cs, 5: If Windows or Linux.. And Mac? You can also throw an `#error` to halt compilation with an explicit error message. Currently, if neither Windows nor Linux are set, the compilation continues but there will be no main entry point. - Program.cs, 18: It's best practice to wrap code always in blocks `{}`. That avoid you avoid something like the infamous [goto-fail|https://www.imperialviolet.org/2014/02/22/applebug.html]. - Snake.cs, 12: This list should really not be public. You should avoid having your mutable data structures public. This way you can not ensure who will ever modify the list from outside and your unit can potentially break really easily. - Snake.cs, 12: If you pre-initialize this list, then you should omit the private setter completely and thus make this property read-only. - Snake.cs, 16: Does it make sense that the Snake gets information how many pieces? Can you ever sensible create a snake with more than one piece? Looking at line 23 I can see that all pieces will be in a line, but you have no information about the bounds of the level here. If there are too many pieces, you easily can move out of the level. - Snake.cs, 18: If pieces is 0... And if it is -1? Best practice is to validate incoming arguments of public methods / constructor for sanity, and **throw an exception** if the violate requirements. In this case you should check whether it is 0 or less, and throw an `ArgumentException`. The caller of this snake unit should ensure that he provides the correct arguments. - Snake.cs, 23: What's `20`? Avoid [Magic Numbers|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_number_(programming)], introduce constants! - Snake.cs, 29: Why is `movementAmount` a local mutable field? It should be a constant! - Snake.cs, 40: Why not use a `switch` block here? Would be a lot cleaner than this 4 if/else blocks. You can also put this outside of the method and introduce a new one, `GetNewLocation` or something. Then you can just write `Vector2 newFirstVector = GetNewLocation(direction);`. Try to keep your methods small, put logical parts into their own methods. - Snake.cs, 51: Why do you just return here? One of the previous cases should be true, otherwise the direction contained an invalid value. This should be again checked at the beginning of the method by ensuring the validity of all input arguments. You can use `Enum.IsDefined` for this, and again throw an `ArgumentException`. The caller should provide valid arguments. - Snake.cs, 59: `Locations.Count` is **always** larger than 0. You ensure that in the constructor (if you also add the check for -1 I mentioned earlier). - Snake.cs, 63: Why do you create a new list? You could just add the new element at the first position of your existing list and remove the last element. That would be a lot more faster and produce a lot less garbage. - Snake.cs, 63: When you decided to modify the existing list, then you could consider using a `LinkedList&lt;T&gt;`. This class provides operations to insert at the beginning with `O(1)` and remove the last element with `O(1)`. - Snake.cs, 69: What does method do? It does not actually add a piece. The `Move()` method would later add a piece. This is really odd. The `Move` method which should only move will add a piece, and the `AddPiece` method will not add a piece. - SnakeGame.cs, 16: Why is this an array if it is just a single color? And if it is initialized here, why not make it `readonly`? - SnakeGame.cs, 67: Why do you repeatedly call `Keyboard.GetState()`? You could store it in a local variable. - SnakeGame.cs, 86: The default constructor of `Random` is already using the current time. No need for the `DateTime.Now.Millisecond`. - SnakeGame.cs, 87: What's `1`? And `38`? And `22`? And `20`? I'd guess sizes of the level and size of the food blocks. But that's just guesswork. Again: Introduce constants. - SnakeGame.cs, 89: Perhaps you also want to check that this is not colliding with the current snakes position. - SnakeGame.cs, 100: This method is **huge**. Split it up into smaller chunks. - SnakeGame.cs, 104: What's the point of this time calculation that you do multiple times? I see no purpose in it. - You have no unit tests at all. You're already 8 years being a developer, you should know about the value of unit tests already. Do them right away! - You have **absolutely no documentation in your code**. Nada, zero, none, keine. - You have no logical split up in your code between the business logic (the game logic) and the visual representation (the GUI). This things should always be split apart. Otherwise, keep it up! 
&gt;Don't use arrays. That's an INCREDIBLY broad statement to make. 
I'm not going to touch Program.cs yet, since that's a MonoGame auto-generated thing. It also does not let me add an access modifier to an enum. My List is now readonly: `public readonly List&lt;Vector2&gt; Locations = new List&lt;Vector2&gt;();` &gt; Program.cs, 18: It's best practice to wrap code always in blocks {}. That avoid you avoid something like the infamous [goto-fail|https://www.imperialviolet.org/2014/02/22/applebug.html]. All the code I write is done like this. I am very OCD with it. &gt; If there are too many pieces, you easily can move out of the level. I figured that this wasn't too big of a deal, since once you start moving, the pieces will gradually get more and more visible. &gt; Snake.cs, 18: If pieces is 0... And if it is -1? Good catch. Changed to `&lt;= 0`. &gt; Snake.cs, 23: What's 20? Sorted. Made it a constant, `SNAKE_SIZE`. &gt; Snake.cs, 29: Why is movementAmount a local mutable field? It should be a constant! Forgot to remove that. It was a "debug" variable. Now uses `SnakeGame.SNAKE_SIZE`. &gt; Snake.cs, 40: Why not use a switch block here? I... I don't even know. Fixed. &gt; Snake.cs, 51: Why do you just return here? Exception now gets thrown, thanks! &gt; Snake.cs, 59: Locations.Count is always larger than 0. Removed. &gt; Snake.cs, 63: Why do you create a new list? You could just add the new element at the first position of your existing list and remove the last element. That would be a lot more faster and produce a lot less garbage. Good point. I'll do this in a bit. &gt; Snake.cs, 69: What does method do? It does not actually add a piece. The Move() method would later add a piece. This is really odd. The Move method which should only move will add a piece, and the AddPiece method will not add a piece. The way I handle square rendering is a bit different to how some others might do it. Due to me not having experience in this, I made it so that when I want to add a new piece, I wait for a move, and then it can sort of "follow along". Otherwise, I would be adding the piece in a random place, which is not preferable to me. &gt; SnakeGame.cs, 16: Why is this an array if it is just a single color? `SetData()` requires an array. &gt; SnakeGame.cs, 67: Why do you repeatedly call Keyboard.GetState()? You could store it in a local variable. Fixed. &gt; SnakeGame.cs, 86: The default constructor of Random is already using the current time. Got that bit from StackOverflow too, removed. &gt; SnakeGame.cs, 87: What's 1? And 38? And 22? And 20? I'd guess sizes of the level and size of the food blocks. But that's just guesswork. Again: Introduce constants. Done. &gt; SnakeGame.cs, 89: Perhaps you also want to check that this is not colliding with the current snakes position. I considered this, but decided that it wasn't worth it. When the snake moves, it will be visible. Otherwise I'd have to do a loop, using resources which wouldn't be worth it. &gt; SnakeGame.cs, 100: This method is huge. Split it up into smaller chunks. Sure! &gt; SnakeGame.cs, 104: What's the point of this time calculation that you do multiple times? I see no purpose in it. This is how I go about slowing down the snake so that it doesn't go off map instantly. I wait `_gameDelay`ms in between each move. Not constant, since `_gameDelay` gets modified. &gt; You have no unit tests at all. How does one unit test a game? &gt; You have absolutely no documentation in your code. Nada, zero, none, keine. Personal projects of mine don't tend to have documentation, I'll try to improve that a bit for you. &lt;3 &gt; You have no logical split up in your code between the business logic (the game logic) and the visual representation (the GUI). This things should always be split apart. I made this game in 2-3 hours, I apologise for my carelessness! :) I'll improve this bit. Thanks a lot for this very detailed review. I appreciate it. A lot. **Edit** Update pushed to git.
Oooh I see. I had double buffered activated on the form but not on the control. I'll try to implement that.
Thanks, I'm going to try that out!
Better than this: bool returnValue; if(!someCondition) { // 20 lines of code returnValue = false; } else { // 20 more lines of code returnValue = true; } return returnValue;
Whoever down voted, please let me know why.
15 minutes? :P
You can't put an extension method on static types (without tricks) ;)
 if (something == true) Just in case, do you know that you can write : if (something) (AFAIK if `something` is not a `bool?`, It doesnt make sense to write the `== true`) And if you really want to be sure : if ((something == true) == true) or if (((something == true) == true) == true) /s 
I'll admit, when I first flesh out a method this is how I'll do it, before removing all the unnecessary crap and refactoring.
Hmm i am using php mysql and i dont know if this is so complicated because I've add one or two functions yet, add and select yet ,its not totally becoming unrensponsive at all but it will took about 5 to 10 sec to add into database
Welcome to people that use "pls" in serious conversation.
Yeah I guess that im executing those in my majn ui, so what should i do? Can you elaborate more details? This is my first time to develop big app and its giving me headache because of its performance .. And it will took about 20 sec to load the datagrid in the ui
&gt;This IMHO usually is more of a problem with process (a lack of clear specifications) and management than it is with the developers Again, this leans toward different goals and a different set of skills that you and I strive to improve. I *want* to be valuable to my company in understanding business processes and concepts so that I can help in designing the solution, not just the software for which I am given specs. I've never worked with a business analyst, and I don't think I would want to. It makes me feel more disconnected from the things I'm trying to solve/improve. I don't want to be just a coder, I want to be a problem solver. Some day I hope to have my own business either developing great games or doing consulting for businesses where I can use my problem solving skills to understand what needs to be built to suit their particular needs. I want to reiterate that I don't think there's anything wrong with your viewpoint; it's completely fine especially if you only ever plan to work in places where there are competent business analysts from which you get your specifications. How do you feel about Domain Driven Design? It's a huge concept that has been around for a while but seems to be growing in popularity even now. At its very core is the concept of understanding what your software is supposed to solve as opposed to just having specs that you code.
Its a little sounds like that I guess By the way this is my first time to build a big app So here is the problem that I am currently facing , in the dashboard (main form) when I click to show the second form (the form with usercontrol and the user control contains the database and etc, ) then it will loads like upto 30 sec then another time for loading the usercontrol that has db , then when i type in the texbox, there's a little slow performance like i cant type smoothly and when I start to add in the database , there's like 10 sec before it adds to the datagridview. Do you get what is happening in my app? So what should i do? How could i fix this problem, I believe that all of these are running in the mainform ui in a single thread
check my codes provided. 
Look dude. check out my codes, I already edited my post
You made this open source without a license? People can use this code for whatever they want. 
That 15 minutes to you could be weeks for a beginner!
foreach (GameObject spawnPoint in spawnPoints) { randomNumber = random.Next (0, 5); if (randomNumber == 0 &amp;&amp; brickSpawned == 3) { } if (randomNumber == 1 &amp;&amp; woodSpawned == 4) { } if (randomNumber == 2 &amp;&amp; sheepSpawned == 4) { } if (randomNumber == 3 &amp;&amp; stoneSpawned == 3) { } if (randomNumber == 4 &amp;&amp; wheatSpawned == 4) { } GameObject newparent = GameObject.Find ("1 - Backgrounf Elements"); for (int i = 0; i &lt; max; i++) Instantiate (MapPieces [randomNumber], spawnPoint.transform.position, Quaternion.identity); if (randomNumber == 0) { brickSpawned++; } if (randomNumber == 1) { woodSpawned++; } if (randomNumber == 2) { sheepSpawned++; } if (randomNumber == 3) { stoneSpawned++; } if (randomNumber == 4) { wheatSpawned++; script so far 
Updates! I added viruses. Little 2x2 red squares that when you eat them, they remove 1 of your tail pieces (if possible). Let me know what you think! :)
OK guys, 9 monsths ago I posted this: https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/32zzfl/we_are_redesigning_our_old_private_c_orm_into_an/ Now I'm releasing a full working version of the SQL generating code, with samples!. Tested on MySQL and SQL Server right now. SQLite and Postgre are on the way. So please take a look, I hope you find it usefull. Feedback is always aprreciated. This is the base for the ORM and ORM UI: https://github.com/okhosting/OKHOSTING.ORM (this needs more docs, but it's working, more on them later.)
Yes.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: - [/r/programming] [Portable class library for SQL code generation  \/r\/csharp](https://np.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/44guxm/portable_class_library_for_sql_code_generation/) [](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))* [](#bot)
You haven't experienced it either then?
Guys help me i already posted my code
Good for you. It's a good idea to stretch your boundaries. You should definitely be proud. 
&gt; I intend to go thorough and clean up that stuff once I get the time. Fair enough, but just as an FYI in the real world, this never happens :)
It's homework and I'm the only person working on it (my partner kinda wants to learn c# but I don't have time to teach him). So I went for functionality first.
That works great. Thanks a lot! Is there anyway to make the radius longer between certain angles for a bigger sort of U? Kind of like a 1/2sin(x) graph as opposed to a normal sin(x) graph?
The command line package manager is fine, I'd recommend that instead.. Or project.json if you're fortunate enough to be working on newer projects
Unit testing a game is no different than testing other code. You have methods that do things, return values, change values. For example it should be simple to test things like, 'move snake left when at left edge doesn't move off grid'. The test should verify the coordinates.
What are you missing? What do you want to make it feel more like JetBrains? In the options you change the colors and they keyboard shortcuts. You can move around the docks and panels as you see fit.
I've tested all of that by simply playing it though. In a game like this, there's not really much to test.
Fair enough, but human testing isn't fast, reliable and easily repeatable. That's the point of unit tests.
No, it's not just you.
 Console.WriteLine(input.Aggregate("", (current, t) =&gt; current + (char.IsUpper(t) ? char.ToLower(t) : char.ToUpper(t)))); 
My skills are defenitly to low to understand that code. .___. How long are you working with C#?
I've also noticed that tab-completion almost never works in it either. It's frustrating because we use NuGet heavily in work. Vaguely wonder if it's because I'm pointing at a ProGet server, but never been bothered enough to run tests.
3-4 weeks
thank you very much you have been a great help ill be sure to message you about any problems i have any other time :) 
sorry but i have another question when i create a button to display one of the "applications" how do i get it to display a text box or a rich textbox etc
I didn't go super in depth, but here are a couple things. **Small stuff** * Why no comments? * Your db password is unencrypted and in the source. Never do that. Make it configurable and encrypted in configuration. * You assume that user passwords are ASCII. You probably shouldn't. * Your channel class hierarchy makes no sense. A client channel is a server channel? Huh? * The Channel Repository will be a scale choke point because of the locks everywhere. You should use a concurrent data structure instead like the ones provided in `System.Collections.Concurrent`. It also seems to assume that there is only a single lobby among all channels which doesn't seem right, but I'm not sure because there are no comments. You are also iterating way too much when you have a key; use a Dictionary/Hashmap type. * It looks like you aren't using any encryption on the wire, and that makes everyone very sad. * Full exceptions are far more useful than just exception messages, especially when you move into inner exceptions. In OHGODNO, use `Exception.ToString()` instead of `Exception.Message` **Architectural Stuff** * Why don't you do anything asynchronously!?!?! * There are no tests * You rely on singletons and statics way too much. This makes your application hard to test, and it makes it hard to maintain. * This looks stateful when there is no need for an IM session to be stateful. This will make it hard on mobile clients and to achieve any sort of scale out or disaster recovery. * It looks like clients need a persistent connection with the server in order to send or receive messages. This can be problematic for reading messages sent while you were offline, and it will definitely murder mobile client batteries. * Basically what I am saying is you should have a request/response setup similar to RESTful HTTP with push notifications. * Stop using named threads (threads that have specific meaning), and especially stop using `Thread.Sleep`. You should never be blocking a thread and you should embrace the `ThreadPool`. * It does not look like there is an auto-discover process which means that clients need to already know the port your server is listening on. Since you added the capability to change ports, that can be problematic. Basically, it looks like you made something very similar to IRC. If that is what you are going for, then okay, but it limits you a lot.
Be sure to read my comment. :) Also, thanks!
Never used Linq! I will have to look this up!
Linq is liquid gold.
I had it originally as just a bunch of nested ifs with if (n % 3 == 0 ) and got stuck in the same way. Somehow i thought a change of pace (while adopting the exact same logical structure) would yield different results, lol. I'll give that a search 
there might be a more appropriate statement than 'if' EDIT: Also, if you step through with the debugger, it should be pretty clear to you what is happening
Well, the order is important and doing just one thing and not all of them at once too. :0)
It's mainly to learn new things (as you wanted) rather than just giving you the answer flat out. If you read around and look at the logic of your current answer enough you will see what the issues are :-) one other thing id say is also you don't need to create a new variable each iteration of the loop, you can just create it outside the loop and assign to it inside. I'm not sure if the compiler would be smart enough to catch that anyway (maybe someone else knows?)
Someone else said you can try the debugger. Another idea is to write down on paper (or on notepad or something) the value of i and the other variables and how it changes in each iteration of the loop and then think through each statement ... There are already a lot of great hints on here though ...
But Unit Testing is faster
....I did it(ish) Its inelegant AF but.... Hooray? http://i.imgur.com/jyIRiva.png 
and what languages before that?
So what you're suggesting is that a company should temporarily hire all their final candidates and at the end of probation period fire all but the best? I disagree. If I were looking for a job, I don't want to put effort into something knowing I have up to a 4 in 5 chance that I'll be looking for a job again in 1-2 months. I also don't think a company wants to invest that much time (coaching five people instead of one) and money (paying five salaries instead of one). A job interview is just like a product pitch. You have limited time to sell yourself as a worthy investment. If you cannot convince the interviewer you're worth it, then they shouldn't hire you. That's not stressful, that's good thinking. The reverse also holds. The interviewer needs to convince you to come work for them, to invest your time. If you don't want to do that, they've failed their come-work-for-us pitch. This is not stressful, that's good thinking. What I want to see is interviewers that know: 1. Know what the are looking for. They should have a clear view of the responsibilities I will be given, and what skills I should posses. 2. Are prepared for the interview(I.e. Have proper questions, that are work-related. Have looked at my resume and/or read my application-letter) 3. Are the people I'll be working with. I don't care about some HR guy. He can sit next to the interviewer, he may even advise the interviewer, but I don't want to be judged on by someone that has no actual idea about what I'll be doing at their company. So interviewer should be my teamlead to be or something related. 4. Have common sense. (Every human should have this, but I digress) 5. Have social skills and patience. Interviewing is an inherent social process where lots of different applicants with different personalities can be found. Some people will be anxious during the interview that normally wouldn't be. Patience allows the interviewer to see whether the applicant is actually smart but anxious or lacks social skills (which can point to not working well in a team, meaning the applicant might nog be the best option) Finally I want to say some of my statements are somewhat un-nuanced. But I feel they are bottomlines. In the end, for me, its what it comes down to.
Who cares about elegance. Hmph. And because I was bored I tried to invent the most unorthodox solution to this problem and coincidentally it is in Python. Oh well, because I wanna brag about it, I will post it here even though it is wrong subreddit. Maybe someone could then post similar C# solution. d = {(1, 0):"Fizz", (0, 1):"Buzz", (1, 1):"FizzBuzz"} print(*(d.get((n % 3 == 0, n % 5 == 0), n) for n in range(1,101)), sep="\n") 
I give up with the UI and just stick to the console window.
What *exactly* are you trying to do?
If it's a multiple of 15, it's also a multiple of 5.
Ha! good job. Here's some logic for your code that is a bit more... conventional. if(iamThree) Console.Write("Fizz"); if(iamFive) Console.Write("Buzz"); if(!iamThree &amp;&amp; !iamFive) Console.Write(n); Console.Write("\r\n");
Params array: http://www.tutorialspoint.com/csharp/csharp_param_arrays.htm It's how string.Format() accepts a variable number of arguments. It's the equivalent of *variadic* functions in C.
As the other people have already said, your main problem is you are combining functions. In real simple terms, you do not want to do the database work in the control/UI. Process your data in a function that fires events. Subscribe to those events on your user control/gui, and update your ui accordingly. Think of your code like a factory. Your database function is the fast typing clerk you don't want giving presentations to the board. That is another functions job! I wish you well. Google a lot. 
You could save yourself a lot of int/float conversions by using Point everywhere you're currently using Vector2.
There are 2 main ways to store references to methods and invoke them: Delegates and Actions/Funcs (generic delegates basically). The problem I think you will have trying to tie all that up in a dictionary is getting the parameters for each method normalized to the same parameters for each method. That's the only way it will work in a dictionary because your dictionary definition will need to be (no parameters): Dictionary&lt;MethodKey, Action&gt; or with parameters Dictionary&lt;MethodKey, Action&lt;Type1, Type2, etc.&gt;&gt;. [This may also help](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3813261/how-to-store-delegates-in-a-list)
I think what you are looking for is params: http://www.dotnetperls.com/params Edit: Saw someone already suggested this, so upvoted his answer.
Okay i will help for your response
Thanks :)
I think you're looking for something like var nargs = new List&lt;object&gt; { (int)Commands.refreshClientInfo }; nargs.AddRange(args) SendData(nargs.ToArray()); 
&gt; Console.Write("\r\n"); Console.WriteLine();
Thanks for the answer but it isn't what I'm looking for. I've updated my original post, could you take a look at the new information?
You should try using monodevelop. Visual studio code is not an IDE, and you honestly will have a much better time developing c# on Windows, especially if you are doing .net stuff. 
I'm still not really sure what it is you are trying to do. Perhaps a flowchart or a bullet list of operations you want to happen?
Wouldn't that write a whole new line though instead of just ending the existing one, resulting in a double space?
SharpDevelop http://www.icsharpcode.net/opensource/sd/ But I agree with other people, if you want C# you should use VS for the best experience. Or you can install VS (2015) in a virtual machine if you dont want it all on your pc.
Why the fuck does this get downvoted? Im the only that gives an actual alternative to VS like OP asked!
Why has no one suggested Mono Develop. It's a little more light weight than VS. 
It's happened a few times before... :p. Even when people ask "What's the best IDE _that isn't_ VS", people will just answer VS.
Yes, exactly like that, however there could be any amount of arguments that need to be passed over to the method. Is there any way to do it automatically without specifically saying how many arguments there are and manually typing the index values? I know I could use a foreach/for loop in order to get each value in the array but how would I then add them as arguments for the method?
Visual studio code is a folder helper with some syntax highlightning, that's about it. It can be likened to notepad++. It's not a proper IDE for advanced languages like C#. Please consider using Windows with the real Visual Studio. Also, Windows10 is performing better than Windows7.
You'd just do SendData(myObjectArray), right?
&gt; but not very usable. I've really only had trouble with two cases: Tao Framework bindings to OpenGL as a winforms control and text box-based controls on the first Raspberry Pi. Out of genuine curiosity; What other cases are they not usable besides when doing OS specific drawing calls to opengl and I assume directx, or trying to use a bad port of mono (hard float)?
My general experience of running winform apps on mono, is that very simple forms work ok (albeit often look poor). Any complexity, which would include most serious desktop apps, fail. Admittedly I have not tried it in years, but as far as I know, nobody has worked on mono winforms for a long time. I'm hoping MS are working on a solution. Maybe with webassembly.
 &gt;that I can't think of any reason you shouldn't use it. One downer, it's you have to run it on Windows. 
The problem is that you're dealing with developers who are, for the most part, introverts and do not have salesmen communication skills. So putting them on the spot with logic questions and whiteboard coding means you might miss out on a great developer who isn't good at interviewing.
If you're coding in C#, the odds are you're coding for a Windows environment :p
I recently solved this problem of running console apps on Linux. First of all, you need to check if you have a 32 bit or 64 bit installation of Linux. The reason being is that there is no .NET Core available for 32 bit Linux. If you have 32 bit, you'll need to have mono's version of the Framework Class Libraries installed. In either case, you'll need to reference either correctly in your project.json file. Here's some pages that might help: https://github.com/aspnet/Mvc/issues/3278 https://github.com/aspnet/dnvm/issues/403 This last page is really where it's at, and helped me to write my first Linux .NET Core console app: http://dotnet.github.io/docs/getting-started/installing/installing-core-linux.html
We are also working on a multi-platform UI framework for c#, currently works on Android, iOS, WinPhone, Windows, Linux, Mac and ASP.NET https://github.com/okhosting/OKHOSTING.UI No a lot of docs yet but thats coming, the project is pretty much working right now.
I would recommend checking out our portable ORM which lets you choose exactly what you want to select , and its damn simple to use and lightweight as well https://github.com/okhosting/OKHOSTING.ORM (needs more docs but the Tests are very descriptive, docs are coming) Or if you prefer a "lower level" approach, use our SQL generation tool, which is actually yhe base for the ORM https://github.com/okhosting/OKHOSTING.Sql Any questions or feedback is welcome
this is trully amazing, I mean, thenks a lot!!!!
Take a look at this portable ORM which has great simplicity, great control and great performance https://github.com/okhosting/OKHOSTING.ORM Give it a try, no a lot of docs, but check out the test folder. Docs are coming pretty soon and its all free as in free code. Feedback and questions are welcome.
If no projects look current you could always create your own github &amp; nuget package that works with modern twitter. I assume their API is probably a simple JSON web service.
I do most of my C# for Linux these days. I don't think I'm unique in that. Console apps mostly, for servers and embedded devices. A bit of Android too.
What are you having trouble with? There are several decent nuget packages which work well (Tweetinvi I have used a few times). If you provide some more info then I can try and guide you a little.
I wish... I need the individual values sent to the method, not the entire array.
I got downvoted just for saying I write C# code for Linux. I don't understand either.
Thanks. I am just creating a simple post to twitter functionality to my application. I will try TweetInvi and I can send you a PM if I cant make it work? I am learning as I go kind of ;)
I know but it would solve their oracle problem and Microsoft could drop windows 10 mobile in favour of Android. On a side note: It would be interesting to see how Microsoft and CyanogenMod's future behold though. 
You must await on your UI thread. Otherwise you end up with cross thread accessing your UI elements, which isn ot allowed.
Some thoughts: - Use Unsafe here. Pin the byte[] as a byte*, then cast that to a uint*. Every safe access to an array element involves a bounds check, which is slow. - Represent swapColor originalcolor as a uint. Get the difference via color - swapColor. - Your multiply / adds are unnecessary - distance != 0 is equivalent to checking if all elements are nonzero, as the square of an integer is always nonzero. You could literally write `if (color != otherColor) continue;` with the suggestion. If you don't want to compare alpha value, then mask e.g. `if((color ^ otherColor) &amp; 0xFFFFFF != 0) continue` Edit: Why are you using marshal.copy on scan0? The intptr given by imagedata points to a block of data. You should be able to do `byte* pData = (byte*)IntPtr.ToVoidPointer()` to get a raw pointer to image data.
If Visual Studio is not your thing (still don't understand the reasons given) then check out [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Its far more lighter, cross platform friendly, and is a decent IDE. One downside is its .NET Core only, but any new development should be done with .NET Core anyway as that's were most of the focus is at now.
Wow, thank you, using new Thread() instead seems to be exactly what I needed. What do you mean about having an option to specify long-running-ness? The program is only useful when all of them are running, for the whole duraction of the program.
Ah, thank you, I'll take a look at that as well. EDIT: Yes, that works well for me too!
Two Words... Community Edition. There is no reason to use alternatives over VS that I can think of unless you're going to use .NET Core and / or will be coding an a machine that can't run VS. 
Visual Studio Community. It's free and the best IDE hands down.
Any language other than Java would solve their Oracle problem so they can go with say Dart.
And a multiple of 3
I imagine Go will be their future as they are developing it themselves.
Maybe make a list of the objects you want to add, then as you loop over each point pick one at random, add it to the grid and then remove it from the list. 
What is the negative consequence of creating a thread for every connection? It seems to perform well, and with the switch to using new Thread() or adding TaskCreationOptions.LongRunning to Task.Factory.StartNew() they all come up fast now. What would I gain if I abandoned that approach?
Nope. It's functionally equivalent, but easier to type and more readable.
The default string format of double rounds to 15 (?) digits. If you want to see the exact value, use `double.ToString("R")` (for "round trip"), which won't discard any precision.
Well, it wastes resources and can slow things down as you've noticed. If the current solution works fine for you, it's not a necessary change.
Sounds like you want to do what NUnit does? It has TestCase attributes which takes in an object[] and uses it to call the actual method which can have any argument types. You probably need to use reflection.
I do~
You need a `Math.Abs()` call in there, otherwise it'll break if `x` is smaller than `y`.
Right, good point.
I've been toying with this idea for a while now, have you considered embedding chromium into a simple window, to act like a complete standalone app where you can develop against a single browser engine? 
I assume you want to test if N is a power of 2? If so, you will get way better perf if you do this bitwise.http://stackoverflow.com/questions/109023/how-to-count-the-number-of-set-bits-in-a-32-bit-integer might get you started. Edit: My assumption being that `n` is an integer - OP makes that ambiguous. Either way, http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1053582/how-does-this-bitwise-operation-check-for-a-power-of-2 would be a better approach.
Probably doesn't matter in your case to be honest. 
We have not, since we develop web sites and services. However, we have thought about making our mobile app just open a browser window to our site.
May as well just use github electron for that case, and write in Type Script
Oh, didn't know that. I use IntelliJ as my preferred Java environment, so I'll have to keep an eye on this.
I would have to agree with Dart as their future language then considering its also developed by Google. (just realised this) Edit: I'd still love to see c# though. 
A tcp server is incredibly simple to write in c#...so yes...
Thanks for the help. I know it believes the error is there, but, after I created my fileMasher object, then try to call the methods within it, it's not finding any. I type fm., and I don't see anything except the methods which are always present (tostring, etc). Not sure why that is.
So when your program does not output the right thing you go the following route - You look at the output and try to make an educated guess how your program executed and what could have gone wrong considering the output. - If you fail at this you go into a debugger and examine the first piece of output that is incorrect and see what is wrong. If it is still not clear you run the debugger again and stop several steps of the program easier to see where a variable changed to unexpected state. Repeat until you've found your bug. 
The problem is with these two lines: List&lt;string&gt; Results = new List&lt;string&gt;(); Results.Add(fm.CompareContents()); The method `CompareContents()` returns a list of strings `List&lt;string&gt;`. The variable `Results` contains also a list of strings `List&lt;string&gt;`. The method `Add()` of a list is used to add a **single element**, so it expects a `string`. But you pass it a `List&lt;string&gt;`, which results in a compile time error. When the method expects a single element you can't pass a list of elements. To fix the error, call the method of the `List&lt;T&gt;` type that allows to add multiple elements at once. Don't know which that is? I'm sure the documentation will help you on that!
While that's also an issue, it would cause a different compiler error.
[See my coment above](https://www.reddit.com/r/csharp/comments/44prjp/a_method_in_a_custom_class_is_not_being_recognized/czrzhdm); I've pasted it into a fresh solution; Divided into two files, and except the error regarding wrong variable type, there was no problem at all; Especially not the one /u/MrUnimportant mentioned.
Maybe he hasn't seen it. I wasn't thinking about how programming is a trial and error challenge and gave a more direct answer. Edited my response
What's your problem with loading a file?
Search for tools that can add managed or unmanged resources to executables.
If exactness is important, use System.Decimal, but note that it's _much slower_, since it's not hardware supported.
Yeah, it simply creates a background thread.
Why not use the normal compiler services instead of pulling from nuget? 
Yup, weirdly enough you can just tack it onto the end of the file and it'll work fine. You'll also need to write the length of the string last so you know how many bytes from the end to read. 
Your question might be too vague. However, you can add a string of parameters after you call your .exe, from a command line for example. That's what the parameter variable in the Main method is for.
Author here. I look at the article and it seems to me that all of these apply to nHibernate as well. Would you disagree? Also my experience with nHibernate has been much more miserable than my experience with Entity Framework mainly because the nHibernate LINQ provider seems to be a kind of cruel joke and I tend to use LINQ extensively. I guess if one chooses to go for HQL or the QueryOver API things might be better.
Nhibernate is for sadistic sados in my opinion.
Yeah but the issue with EF7 lacking features is mitigated by the fact that ASP.NET Core itself will be barely usable in its first version. It would take a year or so to make it practical and by that time EF7 will probably be there too.
 Dictionary&lt;string, string&gt; names = new Dictionary&lt;string, string&gt;(); https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/xfhwa508(v=vs.110).aspx
tip #4 is also interesting, I may have to revisit that. 
But which science is better? The one of the Unified Atheist League, the one from the United Atheist Alliance or the one from the Allied Atheist Alliance ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_God_Go )
https://youtu.be/l9Wdr8KaCDY?t=5m
Just use mini-profiler, it will save your EF life...
I think your definition of hash is different than ours. How about a KeyValuePair? 
&gt; Use raw SQL when you must We have some EF LINQ queries in our repo that are almost a page long - Sometimes you get in too far to turn back...
Yes! That's what I need. Something to store key value pairs.
Updated the opening post to reflect my resolution of the issue.
I've updated the post to reflect my resolution.
A ruby hash is a dictionary in C#. Although I don't think you can compare two dictionaries as easily as you can with hashes in ruby.
Try a Dictionary&lt;string, string&gt;.
If you take a closer look at the response that the server sends you (using a Web debugger like Fiddler), you will see that you get redirected to this page: /error/**ssl**err.html This indicates that the issue is not the user agent, but the used encryption method. By default the `HttpWebRequest` will use SSL 3, which is endangered by the Poodle attack. You can enable the usage of TLS1.2 with this line of code at startup: ServicePointManager.SecurityProtocol = SecurityProtocolType.Tls12;
He's likely looking for a hash**map**.
OMG... I am surprised they work at all.
You weren't specific. A ruby hash kind of takes the place of both, depending on how you use it. If it is a set number of keys, then I'd go with `class` or `struct`. If it is arbitrary, then I'd go with `Dictionary&lt;T1,T2&gt;`. If you want it anonymous, I'd go with an anonymous class. Each one has their advantages and disadvantages. Classes and structs can easily be accessed via simple dot property `c.A = 12` where dictionaries use indexers `c["A"] = 12`. It is harder to iterate through class properties but they have the advantages of speed and type safety. There is also dynamic objects, which may let you get more of the Rubyesque feel. So, it probably would help if you explain how you wanted to use it because that has a lot of impact on what you use.
I'm thinking of making a collection that contains arrays. In ruby I would write: words = { word_1: ["thing one", "thing two", "thing three"], word_2: etc.... }
no
here a pastebin for you: http://pastebin.com/0n2PWdwD
Are the only two keys in there going to be `word_1` and `word_2`? The main reason I ask is that you are going from a dynamic to a static language. A lot of the strengths of C# come from type safety, which is something you don't get with a simple `Dictionary`. With a simple Dictionary, which would have to be Dictionary&lt;string,object&gt;, you have the overhead of boxing/unboxing if `word_2` is an integer plus there is nothing that prevents you from putting a string into `word_1`.
Why can't he use Dictionary&lt;string,string[]&gt;?
Only compared to other ORMs
Maybe you could try to resolve you case using App Services? I'm not sure if this will work, though. Can you use the same app to be the "client" and the "app service server"? https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/mt187314.aspx 
&gt; EF6 gets extremely slow when doing thousands of inserts Allow me to introduce you to SqlBulkCopy. If you are doing 500+ inserts this is going to beat any SQL-based method by multiple orders of magnitude. https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.data.sqlclient.sqlbulkcopy(v=vs.110).aspx
Too bad that it's only usable with SQL server. My use-case was not just bulk insert, but a combination of updates and inserts - and what is an O/R mapper worth when you cannot insert records with a reasonable performance?
I'm not sure if it's BS, but I think it also comes down to personal preference too. I've moved from all backend non-windows dev to a c# .NET shop and it's taking me a while to be comfortable letting a db get created and not really have a lot of the control there (even if it's more manual). Just my personal preference, though.
Most of the time, EF6 creates human readable SQL - but it gets much worse as soon as you have to deal with TPH/TPT.
All of the other databases should have an equivalent. 
You write c# on a pc. Host it on that? You've given 0 requirements for anything. You've clearly test it if you're going to use it. Testing would have required at minimum a mock server setup. 
Well I use code first, so yes. Name your properties and classes correctly and you will get normal table names. Specify your foreign keys in your class and you won't have any auto generated table or column names.
The code I posted is just what I have now. I've even removed pretty much everything, and just tried a basic simple method. It's almost like the IDE is not recognizing it, since when I returned nothing, and had a different variable type calling the method, the IDE still didn't recognize that I had a method created. I don't even know if what I am seeing makes sense. I've looked at dozens of examples, and I've seen what I'm doing done multiple times, but it's just not working for me, in this IDE.
How do you know I'm not a baby? I'm not, but how do you know? Are you NSA?
The original description of the problem didn't have a type. I couldn't infer `value` for `key` or `key_2`. In the clarification, I knew that `First` was `string[]`, but "etc..." didn't have an inferrable value, so I couldn't be sure if it was a `string[]`, a class, or an `int`. My understanding from ruby is that they could have done: words = { word_1: ["thing one"], word_2: 23 } Which is more of class thing or a `Dictionary&lt;string, object&gt;` thing. EDIT: I'm sorry, I didn't actually know /u/ilikepoopbrowines' gender and that was a wrong assumption.
And make sure you don't forget to specify something or miss a foreign key property (which you may not need in the actual model) because then EF will just create a bullshit database which you will discover 5 years later when it is full of broken data.
&gt; any amount of arguments that need to be passed over to the method The only way for a variable number of arguments to be passed to a method is via a params array. There is no other option. What is the method signature of `SendData(...)`? I assume you're asking for this solution because you can't modify the signature of the method.
I dont know, why? :)
Santa doing God's work.
Does it work if you use a test certificate? If so, the code signing cert may not be compatible. 
Why would you be more likely to forget to add a navigation property that to add a foreign key constraint?
I have repo/uow in my current codebase and it's been working well. I'm able to completely replace my DB with a bunch of List&lt;entity&gt; for the unit tests just by instantiating it differently. So, I do need it! I'm curious how other people do unit tests without this. Is there a better way? Now, maybe when the in-memory DB comes in EF7 I'll be able to get rid of it, but until then I can't figure a way around it.
Save your file. Make sure the .cs file is part of your project. The code you posted is (besides of the error) fine.
There are some queries I've just given up on trying to do with EF. After messing with a few calls that would take 5-10 seconds in EF for several hours, I just write it in SQL and can get it down to &lt; 1 second. Early in my development with EF I really resisted this. It's good to keep this in the back of your mind so you don't keep fudging with EF to get it to do the SQL you want it to do.
You used the word IDE a lot, which IDE are u using? EDIT: nvm, VS2013 You could loop over the contents of the returned list and add it to the main List
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/data/dn314429.aspx Mocking framework or in-memory doubles. In addition a simple interface over your data context should be enough to continue doing what you are doing now. No need for Repository. Note that I don't claim that your project will break if you have repository/uow. I just claim that you increased your complexity and did not add value.
This does not seem to be able to do what I want. I cannot find a "task completed" event that the original application can tap into. The calls are awaited so my code would have to pause until my "background" work is completed. This takes away from my original design.... or am I missing something?
Just use [BitConverter](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.bitconverter.aspx) and/or pointers etc.
What are you having trouble with that isn't in standard System.IO and BitArray from System.Collections? Most functionality that you'd ever need to manipulate binary data is in there, and most of the integral types are in C# as standard types (byte for uint8, sbyte for int8, (u)short for (u)int16, (u)int for (u)int32 and (u)long for (u)int64). Anything that's in between can easily be created by bit shifting and concatenating different data types together so that they fit into a larger data type.
I think you want BinaryReader, there's a good stack overflow example [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8620885/c-sharp-binary-reader-in-big-endian) with some example code of flipping endian-ness. The example code has some issues mentioned by comments below it, also, naming a class BinaryReader 2 instead of something meaningful like BigEndianBinaryReader is bad.
I can't imagine either so I compare to my development experience which is slower when I have to check in comparison to just creating db by hand and them mapping entities on top of it.
I asked a developer co-worker of mine to look at it. It was an issue with my inexperience with the VS2013 IDE. I wanted to break apart the class into it's own file, but when my main form didn't recognize that file, I just used the class inline, and the issue was that the two identical classes were clashing. What /u/AngularBeginner said is true as to the logic issue I had. Thank you. I've cleaned that up. I still don't know why VS2013 didn't recognize my class initially. My co-worker just did what I did, and it worked for him. Only thing he did different was build the solution. Whatever for right now. I'll cross that bridge again someday.
OK, thanks, I will look into it. I found another article saying it could have something to do with the certificate using cng storage provider instead of csp storage provider. I will look into both when I get to the office tomorrow morning.
I haven't started working on it yet. I want to connect some wpf clients to the program. For that the porgram needs to be hosted somewhere. TCP felt right, because no webfrontend is needed, but yeah. That are my requirements
Well, it worked with our old certificate. Will check everything again tomorrow morning. Thanks for the help
Declare the FileMasher class as public.
Likely you did not save your project file after it was modified, and the source code file was not referenced anymore. So the file was "not existing" for the C# compiler.
It does not seem to have support for swapping the endianness of data.
Did you try running your program as administrator? Note that I'm not convinced your program is going to help, I'd be shocked if processor affinity will give you a noticeable boost. 
Yes.
Can probably look toward ilmerge / fody / mono.cecil to patch assemblies.
To clarify, I understand what it does. Just not sure why we are calling it recursively. EDIT: This sub is awesome. I learned a ton more than I was expecting. Above and beyond on the explanations. Thanks everyone.
It's not recursive- when calling a method through the `base` reference, it explicitly indicates calling *only* the superclass implementation (something you can't usually do). In essence, the override is trying to only add behaviour rather than completely replace it; so it calls the base class implementation first, then carries on with its own additional logic.
I think the java equivalent to `base` is `super`
I think it's swell!
I see very few reasons to write a specification class instead of using `Expression&lt;Func&lt;T, bool&gt;&gt;`. &gt; Variables are by no means a suitable place for such important information. The domain knowledge represented in such a way is hard to reuse and tends to be duplicated across the whole application because of that. Ultimately, every piece of state is stored in a variable, regardless of whether it's a local, a field, static or instance, or whatever. However, there's no rule that says you need to put your `Expressions` only in local vars. You could put them in readonly field in a static class if you prefer. Then you could say this: var safeForKids = efContext.Movies.Where(MoviePredicates.GRating).ToArray(); Generally, I think abstraction layers need to do more than this to justify their existence.
Well you did bash windows first... Just saying. You can't just talk shit and then not expect people to downvote you, even if it was just implied shit talking.
[Try to parse](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.int32.tryparse%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) the input as an int, and if that fails assume it is a product name, under the condition that a name can't ever be a valid number.
I bashed Windows? I don't think so. I use Windows and Linux on the desktop, and I can't run VS (which I use for some projects), on Linux.
It's totally radical!
Or more simply, just ask the user whether or not they want to enter an ID or product name...then act accordingly
Now I'm by no means an EF expert, but I've found that [Sql Server Database Projects](http://weblogs.asp.net/gunnarpeipman/using-visual-studio-database-projects-in-real-life) have less issues than migrations and allow you to tune the database a lot easier.
Sorry for not explaining properly but my situation is when I am trying to call a server side method and there is disconnection of network, it doesnt throw any exception and waits for timeout from the client side. I have to catch that exception and do a polling for retry
Just to add to everything here, the event handlers for UI events usually always call the base method when overridden. For example you want to do something special when the user clicks a button but you still want the normal button click animation to occur. 
I'd recommend you get multiple database servers set up (one for basic dev work, one for staging/testing before release, and one for prod) but if that's impossible you can install SQL Server Express on your own PC. For basic CRUD apps it can do everything you need. Then when you release, change the connection string to the real server.
You can even attach whole DLLs after compilation! Look into ilmerge. If the string is a constant length, you could also embed a dummy resource file into the program when you compile it and then just overwrite those bytes whenever you need to (I don't think it does compression).
Well, I'm definitely proud of you. 
Works for me, using a WPF `WebBrowser` as well. Are you sure you have set the correct redirect url both in the Twitch app settings and the authorization url parameter?
For those interested. This [article](http://remyblok.tweakblogs.net/blog/11803/converting-certificate-to-use-csp-storage-provider-in-stead-of-cng-storage-provider) helped. Apparently there are two types of storage providers for certificates. Visual studio doesn't work with CNG storage providers. The certificate we received was one with CNG storage provider. I converted it and now it works.
Any particular reason 2013 and not the newest 2015?
I don't use Xamarin, but hey, it does it exist and the UI is pretty nice.
Methods called `OnSomething` are generally used to raise an event called `Something`. When overridden, the base call makes sure the event is still fired. In general, it's specified in the methods documentation whether or not you need to call the base when overriding.
Is it open sourced yet?
I switched to dynamic compilation with mono now.
If it's only the database diagram, you can actually create one of those from your EF code-first model as well. 
Funny code, it seems like when you put out a "{ }" everything inside it get it's own scope (much like when you create a method). It's not really a normal case but I guess if you read this you will understand it better: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa691132(v=vs.71).aspx Edit: But the first b is a bit strange. It's created outside but you can still access it.
Each block of code that is wrapped in curly braces creates a new scope. Once you're in that scope, you're free to create new variables that might otherwise clash with variables at a higher scope. As soon as you're out of that scope, the variables will be released If you remove the braces, you'll see that the code won't compile anymore as you'll be trying to redefine an existing variable It's pretty neat (I didn't realise you could actually do this!), but I would argue that if you find yourself requiring this functionality, you'd be better of refactoring your code into smaller functions
C++ semantics, that code wouldn't compile under cpp if I'm looking at it correctly. At least not without forward declaring the a variable first. But in C# the code is perfectly "legal", strange but "legal"
Well that's what I thought as well. Too bad I was wrong. But you learn new things every day ;)
Yeah no lie, it's not laid out any kind of readable but nonetheless it would compile in cs, but not cpp. (Which is what you were probably thinking along the lines of)
There are a few things that are "odd" with that example. I'm not sure which ones he hasn't learned about yet.
I have all redirect_uri's set to http://localhost, same as on the application setup page. I did forget to note in the OP (which I will add) that this happens when the user first authorizes access to the application. If they have already authorized it previously, once they go to do it again it does automatically go to the proper URI with a valid access token.
OK, a few things I spotted, I'm not an expert so these are just my two cents. First problem is you have your code on Program.cs and after that you have Application.Run(new Form1()) The code after this line is not executed because it jumps to the Form1.cs class. You have to put your code there The other issue I have spotted is that you are setting the background of the picturebox and then sleeping for 10 seconds. On windows forms this blocks the UI. So even if you are not doing anything wrong the UI is stopping. I have changed you program a bit you can see it right here: [program.cs](http://paste.ofcode.org/9bBTGR736a2KincCjuYAjC) [Form1.cs](http://paste.ofcode.org/9kCVUm73XSvk4FCrgPpPna) Keep in mind I have added a button to go through the images on the folder and removed the code where you deleted the folder. That made no sense for me. Anyway english is not my main language, so sorry for any mistakes. Let me know if you need more help.
Just beware, if calling DoEvents fixes this, that means there's a larger problem at play. You should almost never need to call it. It's only used for implementing methods like Form.ShowDialog(). Having it in your own code is a huge code smell. 
Definitely. Looking at the code again - I totally missed that the `PictureBox` isnt even on the `Form`. See /u/Platic's post below. His answer is the right one. If you did want to do it in a loop though rather than the button, the `Application.DoEvents` route **should** work - though yeah, you shouldn't use it. A better approach would be to use /u/Platic's answer and rather than using a button, hook up a repeating [`Timer`](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.timers.timer\(v=vs.110\).aspx) to switch the `Image`s out.
TCP is a reliable transport protocol. Telnet, SSH, and HTTP run over TCP. You can listen for TCP connections on servers, a random PC, Linux, Windows, Mac, BSD. You can send whatever data you like over the connection. MSDN has some sample code to get you started: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.net.sockets.tcplistener(v=vs.110).aspx. Are you looking for a place to host the application online? If network performance isn't critical, I wouldn't reinvent the wheel with a custom data format over TCP. There is a fair amount of HTTP, REST, and JSON libraries available that will make this task fairly simple.
To add to that, I thought that Decorators also add more flexibility, as opposed to just using inheritance? [This is what I used to learn the GoF design patterns for C#](http://www.dofactory.com/net/decorator-design-pattern)
The connection is stateless. If you send a request for something and before the server responds your connection has disconnected (network cable unplugged etc) then the client will just sit there and do nothing. It won't know there is no connection until it attempts to make communication again.
This. Always sanitise data at the earliest point possible
Thanks! :)
Remove the call and see if it breaks. The way it breaks will tell you what the base class is doing.
You're sleeping on the UI thread, which means your app will be unresponsive while it's sleeping. Use a Timer.
That sounds correct
That moment when you randomly read a article and see your name. That too for something I wrote and forgot. (Unfortunately)
Structs act like value types and are more efficient for small data elements. Basically instead of passing around a potentially 8-byte pointer pointing to an 8-byte data field sitting somewhere in memory, you can just pass the 8-byte data field around. You gain benefits with immutability as well.
Get a copy of the production database to use for testing. Host it locally or on a dev server- it doesn't really matter. If you're doing a web app, use [web.config transforms](http://www.asp.net/mvc/overview/deployment/visual-studio-web-deployment/web-config-transformations) to point to different servers depending on the build config. For your integration tests you can do something similiar- in your test project put the different connection strings in app.config so you can supply them to your repository's constructor. There's technically better ways of doing this, but for the time being it's a good start.
&gt; If you want a reference, use DateTime? instead. `Nullable&lt;T&gt;` is a struct, therefor `Nullable&lt;DateTime&gt;` is a struct too.
That's fine. It gets you a reference to a `DateTime`. CORRECTION -- I meant to say it gets you a reference-like variable to a `DateTime`. I know it's not an actual reference.
Uhm... You make no sense. `DateTime` is a struct, `Nullable&lt;DateTime&gt;` is a struct. Where do you think comes a reference into the game? It happens when you box it, sure, but for that it makes absolutely no difference whether it is nullable or not.
I completely missed a bit... The data is serialised using the method Serialise(params object[] args) and returns a byte[] which is then sent to SendData(byte[]). The problem is that the serialiser doesn't accept arrays of data, the data needs to be sent in as single arguments.
I meant it gets you reference-like behavior. `Nullable&lt;T&gt;` may be a `struct`, but you can assign `null` to your variable, which sets its `HasValue` to false.
Notepad++ is a better comparison to Code, it's nice if you wanted to do a quick edit without firing up vs 
`DateTime` is immutable much like a `String` references an immutable object, so the behavior is similar enough.
How do you know the access token isn't supplied? The authentication documentation says that the access token would be in the hash if you are using the [Implicit Grant](https://github.com/justintv/Twitch-API/blob/master/authentication.md#implicit-grant) model. If you are using the [Authorization Code Flow](https://github.com/justintv/Twitch-API/blob/master/authentication.md#auth-code) you will get a code. You then have to make another request to get the authorization token, which might explain why it works for you the second time.
Almost all value types are immutable. And this is now completely unrelated to whether it is a reference or not.
I corrected myself to say it is reference-_like_, which in the case of `DateTime`, is absolutely correct. I'm not referring to other types of `Nullable&lt;T&gt;`. Why are you pressing this issue so far?
No, it is not. Reference semantics are often important, even for immutable objects. Take string interning for example. There's no sense in keeping 5000 copies of the string "SELECT *" in memory, even though they're all equal. Instead, C# and the .Net runtime perform string interning where a single reference to a given string is stored in a temporary cache and that cache is used to satisfy requests for new instances of the same contents. Do not confuse immutability with reference semantics.
It definitely seems like you are on the right track, a few pointers and then some answers: * Methods like TotalCost() are better named something like GetTotalCost() it implies to other programmers it's actually doing something, what it does, and that it isn't simply an accessor. * Don't make instance variables static: private static string itemNumber; should be private string itemNumber; or private string _itemNumber * Use **Double.tryParse()** not double.parse for user input, your program won't crash if someone enters a space or invalid character and you can correct it * _purchaseQuantity isn't in the class as a field, they're constructor parameters that you used to set fields in the class. You could use the fun [implicit/shorthand/whatever accessor](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa287786\(v=vs.71\).aspx) to do it, something like this: public int Quantity {get; set;} public int Price {get; set;} and then your total function might look like this: public double GetTotalCost() { return this.Quantity * this.Price; } As for a test class, you could use random to generate prices and quantity and then a list of strings as property names, or just make an array of products. public class tester { Invoice[] invoices; public tester(params string[] descriptions) { if(descriptions.length &lt; 1) return; this.invoices = new Invoices[descriptions.length]; //iterate through the descriptions, setting each array element to a new invoice //this.invoices[i] = new Invoice(i, descriptions[i], random.NextDouble(), random.Next()); //the nextDouble/nextInt might be wrong I don't use random much //print out the info } } However, if an invoice can have multiple items, you would want to create an item class, then let the invoice contain an array of items. Additionally, you use Invoice myInvoice = new Invoice(); but don't specify any parameters. Your constructor requires that you specify a string item number, a string description, a double price and an integer quantity. This would cause the code to fail to compile. Have a look [here](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms173110.aspx) before continuing with the assignment. I'm happy to help but you'd be cheating yourself out of a lot of info if you didn't take the time to understand classes and objects in c#
umm... https://imgur.com/Jlb5YtM
That's why it is reference-_like_ and not _literally_ a reference. I was only ever referring to the surface level usage of the variable. For both `DateTime?` and `String`, an exception will be thrown if you try to access a member on a null value. That is characteristic of class references. That's not _all_ that's involved with references (as you so eloquently pointed out), but sharing that characteristic is adequate here for me to call it reference-like. Sorry that upsets you. :)
Something else to consider is that, variable-for-variable, structs use less memory. If I have a class that stores a single `int`, then that class needs 4 bytes of memory; however, every instance of a class also has to store an object header describing the type of object and where to find its vtable (because classes support inheritence). So now that little 4-byte class uses ~16 bytes because the object header is roughly 12 bytes (if I remember correctly). Since structs do not support inheritance, structs don't have an object header, and so use less memory. An array of ints `int[200]` consumes exactly 800 bytes of memory. An `object[200]` storing ints needs: * `200 * 4 = 800` bytes for the ints themselves * `200 * IntPtr.Size` bytes to store the references to the boxed ints * `200 * 12` to store the object header for boxing the ints as objects. In a 32-bit process, that's 200 * ( 4 + 4 + 12 ) = 4000 bytes.
Thank you so much for your guidance! I'll work on my code again based on the valuable information you have provided me with. Hopefully, I can have a fully functional program in the end.
All you're doing is confusing yourself. Nullable&lt;T&gt; is a struct. DateTime is a struct. Composing the two means that you have a struct storing a struct, end of sentence. Everything is stored in place, no pointers are used, no object header exists, everything has value semantics, and all memory is consumed up front even if `Nullable.HasValue` is false. [Nullable doesn't even throw a NullReferenceException][1]! public T Value { get { if (!hasValue) { ThrowHelper.ThrowInvalidOperationException(ExceptionResource.InvalidOperation_NoValue); // ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ } return value; } } Even worse, how much memory does a `Nullable&lt;SomeStruct&gt;` consume if it has no value but`SomeStruct` is a struct that has 2000 `int` member variables? The answer: 8000 bytes. You're an idiot if you think `Nullable`, in any way, has reference semantics. The only thing it has in common is that it has some concept of initializability, and it throws an exception if you access it if it is not initialized. The same could be said for a million other classes. [1]: http://referencesource.microsoft.com/#mscorlib/system/nullable.cs,c9505a785f9fd8c5
I admitted this was wrong and clarified my intent.
This has been my solution in for unit tests of production applications: https://effort.codeplex.com/ it works really well
Even in my own performance tests the extensions I have written using the AsDataReader class floating around outperform inserting 2 records with EF. It is very important for someone to do some research and understand the differences and what you give up when using SqlBulkCopy though.
What?
No, it says that it will be in the URL Fragment. From the bit of reading I've done (and my I'm sure limited understanding of things based on that), it seems that I should be getting 1 of 2 things. Either A) the browser source should point to http://localhost/#access_token=&lt;insert token here&gt;&amp;scope=&lt;insert scopes here&gt; and I should be able to convert that URI to a string then parse out the access token that way OR B) the browser source should just point to http://localhost (ignoring the URL fragment like browsers apparently do) and I would have to get the fragment some other way (they give an example for JavaScript but I'm sure there is some sort of C# equivalent). Either way, I'm not getting either of those. I'm getting http://api.twitch.tv/kraken/oauth2/allow after the initial URI and then nothing else. So is http://localhost not a valid URI? Is there a better way I should be going about this? I'm all for suggestions.
&gt; * Methods like TotalCost() are better named something like getTotalCost() it implies to other programmers it's actually doing something, what it does, and that it isn't simply an accessor. &gt; The fact that it's a method is proof enough that it's not simply an accessor. C# has properties, there is no reason to introduce a Java-style getter to your class.
Do you think the entire source code gets stored on the stack or just the data members of the struct?
Did you mean this? http://referencesource.microsoft.com/#mscorlib/system/DateTimeOffset.cs
I honestly have no clue why it's doing that. In VS it's fine, although it did give me a popup saying that the line endings were not all uniform. That could possibly be because I did some work in notepad on it, but most in VS. Sorry.
Not really, it's just a DateTime and an Int16 offset. The const and statics aren't part of the instanced struct data, the statics exist once and the compiler replaces usages of const with the value. Edit: no need to downvote him, he's just asking questions!
Now you're being facetious. It's _completely_ reasonable when explaining a nullable type to someone to say "this lets you assign `null` to it **just as you can to references**". http://stackoverflow.com/a/3149552/264712 &gt; They are more like value types, but **have a few properties of reference types**. It seems I'm not the only one who thinks this way... or are we going to fight over "having properties of reference types" versus my chosen terminology of "reference-like"? Good grief. Sure, I wouldn't put my statements into a formal textbook; I was just making offhand comments. Someone is using a `struct` and notices it cannot be set to `null` like references can. You wanna set it to `null`? Boom. Use `Nullable&lt;T&gt;`. Now it works kinda how references do! Fancy that!
Not sure if being sarcastic or not
&gt; the block scope for anything bracketless (for, if, while, whatevs) is just the next ~~row~~ **statement**. I knew what you meant, but fixing cause it made me twitch...
Yes, we have been fighting over "having properties of reference types" versus "reference-like" the whole time. One implies a higher degree of similarity than the other. Nobody would call an automobile house-like even though they both have doors and windows and people inside.
So here's the thing... a [Using](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/yh598w02.aspx) statement explicitly calls Dispose() when you break out of the Using's context. Even if other things are holding a reference to the object it still calls Dispose()! Also GC.Collect() just by itself is not going to help anything. (Neither will your bizarre calls to KeepAlive). An image of 85000 bytes or larger is created on the large object heap. By itself GC.Collect() does nothing to the large object heap. In .NET 4.5 or higher you can optionally add GCSettings.LargeObjectHeapCompactionMode = GCLargeObjectHeapCompactionMode.CompactOnce before GC.Collect() to force it to clean up and compact the LOH, but I would only do that if you're running into memory fragmentation issues.
&gt; The fact that it's a method is proof enough that it's not simply an accessor. C# has properties, there is no reason to introduce a Java-style getter to your class. While it might just be preference I have always seen and used this convention. If I were using an unfamiliar class like this, I would look for CalculateCost, GetCost, GetTotal, etc... While I do confess the g should not be lowercase, since it is a method the verbage is kind of expected, hence ToString, GetType, not just Type() or String(). To each his own I suppose
Also it defines the method as a query rather than a command (meaning it doesn't change state within the system).
You're using the built in webbrowser right? The comment below about listening to WebBrowser.Navigating might work for you then. Just split it after the # and check if it matches, then try to read the token. The hash might actually get stripped by the browser. I had to do something similar with the old Beats Music API. Also check out [CefSharp](https://github.com/cefsharp/CefSharp) if you are doing a lot of browser work in your app. It's really nice and integrates well with C#
DateTime uses 8 bytes. DateTimeOffset uses 10 bytes. That's very small, especially considering that the penalty for using a class is: * 4 or 8 bytes to store the object reference * About 12 bytes to store the object header. By making DateTime a class, it could go from consuming 8 bytes to 28 bytes, a 3.5x increase. It was indeed smart of the designers of .Net to use a struct.
Nope. Perfectly sincere. You can just tack data onto the end of an executable and it'll be fine. It's how self extracting archives work. 
What would be an example of this?
But what about the PE sections? Like surely doing that means you could end up putting the text at the end of executable data? .bss, .text, etc?
You can map Edit -&gt; Advanced -&gt; Tabify/Untabify selected lines to a key shortcut. I use Ctrl + Alt + T/U. Also you should set the default in VS to be whichever one you use, so it always uses the same spacing you do.
Thanks. This was the quality answer that I was looking for. 
My friend, my friend, my friend * No touching the garbage collector (others have explained why) * Using automatically disposes of anything that's holding a reference, lesson time When we have mutable objects like streams they can be passed around an manipulated by functions. They aren't values and anything you do in the method would actually change them. This can be really useful sometimes, and other times it isn't what we want, it just depends. Anyways, if you set ret to a stream, then close the other stream you're going to close ret because you made a shallow copy and then closed the source. Also, here you set ret = null; and then never do anything with it, then you cast null to an Image. It seems the cast isn't complaining but anything trying to use that result after is going to get whatever happens when you cast null to an image, which is probably no good. Is the image meant to be null? If you actually wanted to return an image, pass it as an out, or if you want to write to a stream take the stream as a parameter and write to it. You could also just take a stream in and return Image.FromStream(), but if you return an image you can't put it in a using statement or you'll dispose of it before it gets used. But really don't touch the GC you probably aren't doing anything that would require it, and it looks like an attempt to cover up an insane memory leak or something. And I have no idea what those disable warnings are for but do yourself a favor, remove them and fix the issue because that does not look good. Keep at it, but as a general rule of thumb heed warnings, don't play with the GC and remember that setting a disposable to another variable then disposing of it closes both. Take a look into how mutable objects in C# work, shallow copies, and the disposable interface. Also, [TASKS look into tasks!!](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh191443.aspx) declaring something async doesn't make it so. You write a file synchronously in an async method which does nothing.
Take a look at ActionBlock and to manage throttling to a maximum number of tasks.
C# compiler will not create a new variable every time through the loop. For scoping purposes, it's recommended to define the variable inside the loop so that it cannot be accidentally used outside of the loop (forcing you to only do that if you really need to use it outside of the scope of the loop).
because the author likes to bring the noise. Base! How low can you go? Death row, what a brother know Once again, back is the incredible rhyme animal, the incredible 
&gt;Feature Flag Driven Development For when learning how to use git is just to hard.
Could you elaborate? I'm assuming you are referring to the Task.Run? Why can't I use it? I could remove it but then I would be blocking pretty hard in an async method
A security bug in Mac OSX caused in part by not using braces: http://www.dwheeler.com/essays/apple-goto-fail.html
It's useless, stream.WriteAsync is only async method inside and calling it outside will be the same. It's still blocking but also uses background thread
I see, good catch, I removed it but unfortunately that doesn't fix the issue
By the way, HttpClient still does buffering even if you use PushStreamContent. The only way to do it without buffering all data in memory is using HttpWebRequest with AllowReadStreamBuffering=false option.
That's exactly my thought as well. 
MonoGame?
I think there's an SDL2 library that was ported over to C# but I'm not sure.
&gt; Your db password is unencrypted and in the source. Never do that. Make it configurable and encrypted in configuration. Dictionary&lt;string, string&gt; defaults = new Dictionary&lt;string, string&gt;(); defaults.Add("connectionString", "datasource=localhost;port=3306;username=talky;password=talky;"); defaults.Add("database", "talky"); ConfigurationFile config = new ConfigurationFile("database"); ^ Configuration \*cough\* &gt; Your channel class hierarchy makes no sense. A client channel is a server channel? Huh? ServerChannel is the general type of channel. A ClientChannel is a channel created by a chat client (someone connected). These are set to auto-expire when their population hits 0. &gt; It also seems to assume that there is only a single lobby among all channels which doesn't seem right There should only be one lobby channel. &gt; It looks like you aren't using any encryption on the wire, and that makes everyone very sad. This was just for me to learn and stuff - I don't intend on having people using this for confidential discussions. &gt; Why don't you do anything asynchronously!?!?! See my comment that I made when I originally posted this. &gt; There are no tests I'll do that soon enough. As in, ASAP. &gt; You rely on singletons and statics way too much. This makes your application hard to test, and it makes it hard to maintain. How so? &gt; This looks stateful when there is no need for an IM session to be stateful. This will make it hard on mobile clients and to achieve any sort of scale out or disaster recovery. Not too sure what this means, would appreciate clarification. &gt; It looks like clients need a persistent connection with the server in order to send or receive messages. This can be problematic for reading messages sent while you were offline, and it will definitely murder mobile client batteries. That's right. I am planning on fixing this by adding an offline message (/msg -&gt; mariadb) thing or something like that. Not fully sure what my intentions are with that yet. &gt; Stop using named threads (threads that have specific meaning), and especially stop using Thread.Sleep. You should never be blocking a thread and you should embrace the ThreadPool. I was told by a game developer to give names to my threads. Also, how else might I delay an action without sleeping? &gt; It does not look like there is an auto-discover process which means that clients need to already know the port your server is listening on. Since you added the capability to change ports, that can be problematic. Does IRC have auto-discovery? Also, if someone changes the port, then they should be sure to tell their friends it changed.
Why use a readonly list over an array?
Read up on feature flag driven development. It's all about throwing everything in the main branch and turning it off and on instead of having half baked features in their own branch.
I actually started the project from scratch and was super careful about my implementation and managed to get everything working ok. Thanks though! Now, if you have any experience with dealing with captive portals from embedded devices...
No experience with captive portals except with Linux and IPTables, sorry! Good luck; glad you got the other thing resolved. 
Does your server require a secure connection? Are you using one? Is the port open? Take it a step at a time. Try your same code on a Windows computer with the database installed on it. If it works, you know it's Linux related (although I doubt it). Most likely it's a port issue or a secure connection requirement that you aren't using.
&gt; provider: SSL Provider, error: 31 - Encryption(ssl/tls) handshake failed Going to bet you need to remove "Encrypt=true" from your connection string. Seems to me that your client attempted to initialize SSL encryption but the server was not configured for it. 
&gt; `password=talky;` This is just a placeholder. These values all get put into a config (C:\Talky\database.tcfg), and must be changed. &gt; Then name it Channel. As it stands right now, you are saying a client is a server (because sub-class defines an "is-a" relationship between child and parent). And that makes no sense. I get what you're saying, but I faced an issue between my namespaces and class names. &gt; A stateful service is one in which one specific instance must handle everything. A stateless service means that any instance of the service can handle a request. Let's say you are super successful and you need to have multiple machines running this service? Will it even work? What happens when one instance crashes? Stateless services can scale out without a problem, they also seamlessly work around instance failures. I understand that, thanks for clarification. How would I go about implementing this? I'm not experienced with anything handling over 4,000 users. 4,000 ish, is about the most I've ever handled on anything. &gt; Massive text. Not quoting. ;) \*jaw drops\* That's a shit load. I will try to use what you said here. &gt; Last bit, not quoting. Acknowledged... not sure what to reply with exactly. :P
Hahahah, writing it made me twitch as well, but given the question in the thread, I highly doubt the guy would know what a statement is.
Oooh, that's shiny. OMW to check it out, thanks!
&gt; Feature flags *cause* a different problem to git ftfy this is part of the new RDD stream i call it Retard Driven Development
It's fine in VS because your VS tab size is set to 4. On the web tab sizes are mostly 8. Your file is using a mix of tabs and spaces in a way that will mess up the layout.
&gt; that a user has to enter a matching username and password for the rest of the program. I have understood you need this program asking you for an username and password until you enter the correct values. Here might be your solutions. There is few way you can achive that by using while etc. but i prefere goto in this case (If it shouldnt repeat just remove else goto + pass: and user:) const string username = "cashier"; const string password = "NOPassword"; static void Main(string[] args) { string u, p; user: Console.WriteLine("Enter your Username:"); u = Console.ReadLine(); if (u == username) { pass: Console.WriteLine("Enter your Password"); p = Console.ReadLine(); if (p == password) { Console.WriteLine("Succesfull"); Console.ReadKey(); } else goto pass; } else goto user; }
If it would be your code you can do it this way public static void Play(string Path) { using (SoundPlayer player = new SoundPlayer(Path)) { player.PlaySync(); } } Usage: Play("C:\\sound.wav"); You might wanna consider using PlaySound from winmm.DLL instad of SoundPlayer [System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImport("winmm.DLL", EntryPoint = "PlaySound", SetLastError = true, CharSet = CharSet.Unicode, ThrowOnUnmappableChar = true)] private static extern bool PlaySound(string szSound, System.IntPtr hMod, PlaySoundFlags flags); [System.Flags] public enum PlaySoundFlags : int { SND_SYNC = 0x0000, SND_ASYNC = 0x0001, SND_NODEFAULT = 0x0002, SND_LOOP = 0x0008, SND_NOSTOP = 0x0010, SND_NOWAIT = 0x00002000, SND_FILENAME = 0x00020000, SND_RESOURCE = 0x00040004 } Usage: PlaySound (FileName, new System.IntPtr(), PlaySoundFlags.SND_SYNC); 
SFML .net (C# binding of SFML) that's what i use, and i love it
Aw man. This looks like the best option. I think it'd be a hard sell to my workplace, though. Thank you for showing it to me, though.
Decimal is actually another floating-point type, but it uses an decimal representation internally, while float and double use a binary representation. Decimal is more precise because it is larger, and because it doesn't have the quirky behavior that comes representing rational, decimal numbers as binary values. Unless you're going to define your own currency type, it *is* the way to go for monetary values in C#, though.
Outside of the misunderstanding of the using blocks (your canvas and final are being disposed). You are returning Image ret. You never set it to any value.
Boy you are in for a treat... If you really do start warming up to LINQ, have a look at F#... 
Worse than the memory use, is that iterating over pointers to objects misses the cache over and over. Iterating over structs in line, in memory, if arranged right, can be an order of magnitude (or two) faster in some cases.
Simple problem was for demonstration purposes. Imagine if code base related to this functionality was orders of magnitude larger.
Can I see your code to compare to mine? I've worked with another person all last night trying to figure it out and my head is bleeding form banging it against the brick wall all night.
&gt; Just split it after the # and check if it matches, then try to read the token. The hash might actually get stripped by the browser. The problem is that I'm never actually getting to that URL on the first try. Every time the URL changes I have it printing the current URL to a console line and it never gets to localhost. &gt; Also check out CefSharp... I actually did look at it as an alternative in case the issue was with the WebBrowser control itself but I could never get it to actually load anything if I remember correctly.
Hrm, ctrl+t seems to do something different, but I might not have let resharper specific shortcuts take the default ones. So I'll have to figure out how to let enable those. Thanks! EDIT:I figured it out (went resharper-&gt;options-&gt; keyboard and applied bindings). It's a convenient searcher for sure, but if you need to quickly work between them it's still kind of a hassle. I do like your CTRL + Tab shortcut, even though it has the same problem as normal tabs in only showing the file name. Maybe I should figure out how to make my own small extension at this rate. My problem is so incredibly specific and I don't want to buy something for one specific feature. Thank you, though!
Alright give me a day or two and I'll set up a sample project, I will see if I an get it working and get back to you
There are also syntax errors on line 3; you have an unmatched opening parenthesis and missing semicolon.
"No, you dummy, you actually have to do work if you want to do this."
Your `_messageTemplate` is a field, not a property. `MessageType` is a property. ReSharper's suggestion is for the field. 
dmoonfire gave a good answer to your question. I just have a small note on terminology. `private readonly MessageTemplate _messageTemplate;` doesn't declare a property. It's a field. 
Fair enough. I feel the same way not having cross platform support. It's been a pain finding anything C# related for gamedev such that I actually started learning java so I could use lwjgl. 
Fair enough. I feel the same way not having cross platform support. It's been a pain finding anything C# related for gamedev such that I actually started learning java so I could use lwjgl. 
Sorry about the small font size. In the next video on pattern matching I'll make sure to crank it up.
Those sections have defined sizes. 
I got it figured out w/ the help of you and /u/tweq. Thanks guys! Couldn't have done it w/o you both!
Thanks for the help.
There is no issue with the code in the post. Perhaps the server just does not respond?
The member variable _messageTemplate is only ever assigned once. This means that it will always point to the same object in memory. The readonly flag prevents code changes in the future from assigning that variable to a different instance of the type MessageTemplate. The variable _messageTemplate is a pointer to a class/object, which is a reference type. These are always stored in the heap, so what actually gets stored in the stack for _messageTemplate is an address to a location in the heap. The readonly flag tells the compiler to never allow this address to change. There are no other implications; other than garbage collection but way out of scope for this discussion. If you wanted the data that is stored in the heap to have the same protection you would need to add the readonly keyword to each member/property there as well. Resharper is making the recommendation because in the future a developer will need to remove this flag to do something like ```_messageTemplate = new MessageTemplate();``` as this type of change has a high risk of being a breaking things and probably needs more consideration.
Why don't you post your price range? You sure post a lot about what you're looking for, but hardly anything about what you're offering.
Isn't 4 years of Xamarin experience a bit of extreme requirement. You are looking specifically for first adopters?
Very well made video. To be honest the font size wasn't a problem for me - it felt closer to my natural development environment, but I get that mobile users might suffer. What did feel strange was whilst Youtube was seemingly playing back at the vids highest res (720p), the resolution of the video seemed much lower.
C# 5.0 to C# 6.0 was nigh on 3 years in the making, it's a bit scary that we're barely 6 months in to 6's release and C#7 is already making inroads.
I don't know much about video editing, but I did make sure to export at 720p. I suspect that perhaps because it was filmed at 1080p that downscaling it to 720p might cause this issue? I'll play around with that next time I upload a video. Maybe I'll just try exporting as 1080p.
They're actually [considering](https://twitter.com/xjoeduffyx/status/654677580323291136) doing even more frequent releases. I'm personally opposed to it because it'll make building reliable tooling much harder, but many people are interested in the idea.
[**@xjoeduffyx**](https://twitter.com/xjoeduffyx/) &gt; [2015-10-15 15:17 UTC](https://twitter.com/xjoeduffyx/status/654677580323291136) &gt; Debating whether to do "minor" releases for C\#. E.g., 6.1, 6.2, ... prior to 7. Pro: faster innovation; con: more variants of the language. ---- ^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot [^[Contact ^creator]](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot) 
I'd love to apply for this (I use Xamarin and am originally from MKE) but I'm still in school... I'm curious what company this offer is for though.
That's because Roslyn is so awesome :)
Then why did you quote the bit about reference semantics? Also, literally the third bullet point I quoted from Microsoft's documentation says that structs should be immutable. 
I interned at MSFT and then worked as an FTE. Interns are treated much better.
For the driver, I've used LibUSBNet to positive effect to create super simple custom device drivers to read/write to particular devices (microcontrollers with bad PIDs) through C#. Another, potentially simpler, solution would be to use the old Tao Framework (not OpenTK) for the SDL libraries which are also super super easy to use. Connect to the available HIDs and get the name of the device if it has one. Then use it that way.
I did this recently with some rest services. Basically I wrote a powers hell script to fetch the info, and generate my classes , properties, and attributes. Only required around 100 lines, and created 62000 lines of classes. Not sql... but could easily generate sql instead of c#
Just increase the bitrate during your export. That'll help a bit.
I thought about that but since the definitions for the buttons are in the source code and what's uploaded to the board is a compiled hex it's over my head to write software that recompiles user changed fields and flashes the whole program again to the device. I also wouldn't know how to encrypt it in a way that the source isn't just sitting there in the hands of the end-user that way. Again, I am logical but coding green.
F# is the ugliest piece of crap I have ever let me eyes look at. Googled it the other day. No.
Before anyone jumps down his throat, he's looking for tutorials and such that are aimed at Python programmers who want to make the switch. Not necessarily a straight introduction to C#. I myself am looking for some sort of bridging material to lower me down a notch to C#'s level, which seems scarce. 
The way you've declared Fib1 and Fib2 is as integers. (Well integers that are assigned to null, which isn't allowed) It doesn't really let you assign local functions to variables unless you want to use delegates. (Action, Func etc.)
I'd suggest you to just a buy a proper book, read it and work on little projects with C#. If you're a beginner I'd suggest you "Head First C#", if you're a seasoned developer you should buy "C# in a Nutshell".
you forgot to add the code
i turned to the docs on microsoft's website, what would you say about that ? 
I think books provide the necessary content in a more structured way, basically leading you. With the documents you easily end up jumping around too much, learning things out of order and easily missing important little informations.
I'd consider C# a lower level language than Python. Though not as low as C++ or even C.
have you made any project with c# ? i ask because i am curious as to what we can do with c#(i have read and you can make a ton of stuff)
You could use [the official Unity tutorials](http://unity3d.com/learn). which are fairly easy to understand, and fun. In general unity is a nice entry point to C# since you get visible results and you need few advanced features to quickly get some stuff done. Caveat: You learn at least as much unity-specific stuff as you do learn C#. Looking at it another way you only learn half as much C# as you might learn using some pure C# course in the same time.
I think he means low level vs high level languages in terms of abstraction rather than being disparaging about c#
Yes. I should have made that clear. By no means do I mean that C# is an inferior language.
yes that is what my initial thought was but the poster made it clear afterwards :)
i did come across unity tutorials, and they seem good....
Since you already have programming experience, I'd suggest you look into: [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/search/SearchResults.aspx?q=C%23#!q=C%23&amp;lang=1033) (free) [Pluralsight](https://www.pluralsight.com/) (not free) Also, take a look at the links to the right (e.g. [to grab free Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition](http://www.visualstudio.com/products/visual-studio-community-vs), or [C# Fundamentals: Development for Absolute Beginners](http://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C-Fundamentals-for-Absolute-Beginners)). It can be pretty daunting to learn C# when you only know dynamic/interpreted languages such as PHP, Python, Ruby or JavaScript - Best of luck.
Oh, that certainly might help a bit. I'll see if the others like that as a solution. At least it makes it a bit more clear, even if it isn't at a glance.
You are using the command prompt, not the developer command prompt. Use the developer command prompt.
It's a basic type, who wants to be cloning dates all the time? It's the same reason strings (despite being reference types) are immutable and have highly modified default behaviour differences from other ref types.
1. Check all IPs to see whether server is running somewhere. 2. If it's running, connect. Otherwise, start server. That simple. What do you need more for it?
If you want mutually recursive functions can't you do static void Main { void M1() { void M2() =&gt; M1(); M2(); } } 
The font size is fine... Its the resolution that kills me. After youtube adds its compression 720 is very hard to read, either upload at 2560 by 1440 or at least 1080p for decent quality. Even if for some reason you are on a tiny laptop screen, still upscale and upload it at 2560 by 1440, the image quality will be so much better for everyone. If you are recording at 1080p upload at 1080p or 4k. 1080p content looks so much better at 4k because of the huge amount of compression youtube uses.
My first thought was that you would want to first locally create an excel spreadsheet, work with it and then upload it. If you then wanted to make further changes, i would download it from docs/google drive and then modify it and re-upload it... May need to delete it from drive and re-upload it, im not sure how that works. Start here - https://developers.google.com/google-apps/spreadsheets/#creating_a_spreadsheet
It's not at all a lower level language. Take a look at linq, or async. 
That's a good point. I will have to approach the hiring managers to see if this is something to be considered.
All your friends are paying for static IPs? Unless you and your friends are sitting in the same network (or something like hamachi?), it would probably be cheaper to pay for a cheap VPS than the additional static IP/month for each of you. Also, a free Dynamic DNS solution would alleviate this. This is a potentially complicated task. For voice traffic I'd suggest using UDP and adding some sort of acknowledgement for management packets (Connect/Disconnect/KeepAlive/etc..). You could also use TCP for all your management data and UDP only for voice data. I haven't dealt with any voice code, so I'd have to research where to begin (naudio, http://naudio.codeplex.com/ seems like a good starting point)
I've sort of done this, but only one-way. I use [EPPlus](http://epplus.codeplex.com/) to generate an Excel spreadsheet (follow their examples/samples), then I manually import it into Google Sheets. For the most part it works OK. Not sure if that would help you or not.
This seems like an interesting project. Want any help? 
But then you're learning Unity, and not proper C#. For learning good C# those tutorials are awful.
I would also recommend Mosh Hamedani's C# videos on udemy (cheaper than pluralsight)
Thanks for the suggestion! It looked really promising, but I kept getting 'KeyNotFound' exceptions anytime I would access a DbSet. It was due to spatial data types; It doesn't support them, and has no plans to.
Personally, I have never seen `_lowerCamelCase` syntax used for local variables inside loops/cases/if blocks. I've only really seen it for private (and sometime public) fields that are needed/exposed for some kind of mechanism (say, serialization) but shouldn't normally be accessed by developers.
It could be an isolated thing. To me, _any_ variable inside a method should generally be considered applicable for only a "short period of time/code" as your methods should be generally small, and ideally, short-lived. In turn, sub-blocks of code tend to be even smaller so the scope of variables declared in them should be very small and very easy to maintain. Were the methods/code blocks where you worked particularly large/complex? EDIT: That said, I haven't worked directly in the banking sector, so I have no idea if that's just normal or not.
There was some pretty complex code yes, especially when it came to data abstraction and security. &amp;nbsp; I'm quite glad I moved on, my brain isn't as taxed. ;-) &amp;nbsp; On the other hand a friend of mine worked in the same industry for a less developed country and shared with me some horror stories about how their systems lacked encryption and he was frequently patching code to resolve hacks. So I could have had a worse time!
I thought your IPv6 didn't change over time on a basic ISP, well, my bad on that one. And good thinking with TCP+UDP setup. I was thinking of using SIP, but that might not even be necessary with your combo :) And for audio yep, I'm looking into Naudio. "Sounds" (haha) like the easiest solution for outputing incoming packets. The only real issue here is that if the one acting as server crashes/DCS etc. There will be some down-time, for making new server host, transfering everyone to the new server etc. Anyway, thaks for the help ;)
Not really, it's mostly a project to learn networking and audio management during my vacation. (I have exams next week, and what better time to start a project than just before exams haha :p Basically no thx, i'll keep this small thread updated in the next few weeks
[Pokemon exception handling is a surprisingly old term.](http://forums.thedailywtf.com/forums/p/8499/161761.aspx)
This is a good idea. Find something you like and have a go at implementing your own version. Like movies, make a database, try different approaches and patterns for storing and retrieving the data (it doesn't have to be in a database). I'm currently doing a lot of architecture work so I can't do as much dev. at work, so I'm making my own Blackjack Console app and trying out different approaches. When your learning, don't get too hung up on implementing Code Patterns straight away (strategy, template, factory whatever) you'll learn when and why to use those. But fundamental things like understanding basics like values types vs reference types, when to implement interfaces, abstract/virtual classes (the answer is these aren't mandatory but are good practice). Oh and spend a decent amount of time learning Linq. Linqpad is your friend and the base version is free and has Linq examples.
I didn't think so, oh well. Thanks for the info. I'll try and figure out some way to get this working in another way. I realllllly don't want to make some base object that a bunch of other things inherit which allow them to throw out our stupid custom logging and tracing info. Why oh why oh why did we need to build logging and tracing inhouse? oh yeah, the boss wanted to make everything work *just the way he wanted*. no exceptions. no not even for industry best practice. =-P
Thanks for your feedback :D, I will try to use Uppercases instead of lower in the future!
thank you, I appreciate the help!
Base class does seem the most straightforward answer. Sometimes T4 templates can help you solve these sort of problems, but I'm not sure they're a great fit here.
Ninject can do cool stuff with attributes...
at the moment, i have three events i hook into for the few classes which need logging (log, error, trace). We have it this way since we use some lazy calling magic to avoid calling some things depending on build. I guess I could do that. I'm probably just going to end up pulling a 'loggable' object through the system which has three methods and three events, the events get hooked up before and the methods get called from the different objects which have a reference to the loggable object. that was what i was considering moving forward, I was just trying to avoid it.
Awesome def going to give this a go! I appreciate the help!
In terms of storage what's wrong with using IEnumerable&lt;object&gt;? How is the data subsequently used? Why can't you use Reflection?
Also, if you look at others code; try to find the shortcuts. Learn them, also learn the use of them. But Critically learn not to rely on it. Some shortcuts are bad, others are so-so. But all shortcuts tend to reduce readability. For ex: myBool == true ? "it is true" : "it is false"; Also is this if(myBool == true) { "it is true"; } else { "it is false"; } The above code is not actual c# code, other declarations are missing from it to make it executable. But it gets the point across. Which is, at first glance to the novice; which is more readable?
I'm not too sure about the compiler specifics of what you're asking, but I disagree with you when you say its not obvious that the collection is/could be modified by the function. C# passes arguments by reference by default, so any time you see a method call with a parameter you have to assume the method is at least possible of modifying the parameter. Plus, your method is named PointModifier; its pretty obvious that things are going to change! Also, if you want to explicitly state through your code that the collection is being changed, change your function to return a new collection with the modified values. That way, its super explicit as to what's been changed, although it's less efficient. Personally, and I think this is fairly standard, if I see a ref parameter, I assume that the reference itself can be changed, not that the values of the parameter could be changed. IMHO, all c# developers should understand that c# is pass by reference; its one of the most fundamental bits of info needed to understand the language. 
Why not something like this in the functional style? Point ModifyPoint(Point p) { //return a new updated point } //in your main code body var updatedList = pointList.Select(f=&gt;ModifyPoint(f)); It is usually cleaner to write functions that operate on a single item and use linq as the glue to tie them together. re: ref keyword As an aside, the ref keyword is probably not necessary in your example. It is only required if you are returning a completely new list. ref allows you to update the pointer to the object, you can updated the items within the object without ref. EDIT:formatting and code correctness
Rather than try..catch blocks around each call to GetOrdinal(), just put one around the entire method. If any one of them fails, your stacktrace will tell you the line number. And is a sign that you have a problem with either bad data in the database (value isn't a Decimal when it should be) or the structure of the database no longer matches your object properties (go yell at whoever changed stuff without telling everyone). As a personal preference, I prefer the Convert class to get stuff out of a reader. And use the indexer of the SqlDataReader that takes a column name. try { obj.value0 = Convert.ToDecimal(reader("Value0")); obj.value1 = Convert.ToDecimal(reader("Value1")); } catch (Exception ex) { // handle exception } Much more compact. BTW, Dapper does all this mapping for you, as long as the names of the columns matches the object properties. It's entirely automatic. 
Thanks for the comment. The reason this particular implementation handles exceptions this way (and this was all existing code) is because these exceptions aren't exceptional stop events for the application - if one of these errors, it's simply logged (which handles notification, etc), and the processing continues. So if there are 50 properties, and 1 throws an exception for some reason, that's an acceptable scenario as far as the application is concerned. Edit: Oops, forgot to address your main suggestion! I have been going through and simplifying the database code as I've hit each area of the application. Mine works more like what you suggest. This is a class that I am just getting my hands on now, so something like you suggest will be put into place as well. Thanks! Edit 2: Yeah, Dapper is one of the things I've been trying to sell them on. It's so often an uphill battle, though. :)
Well, if they're morally committed to being silly, you could always maintain the attributes of the classes in some kind of configuration, and then use T3 text templating to built in-line code to both build the classes the methods to serialize/deserialize them.
Yes, but it requires what's known as Aspect Oriented Programming. What AOP does is rewrite your code (during or after compile time) to include additional features. In the case of C#, attributes are usually used as markers to indicate what needs to be done. ref: * http://www.infoq.com/search.action?queryString=postsharp&amp;page=1&amp;searchOrder=&amp;sst=Q9tcIethiVN8zMUE * https://www.postsharp.net/product 
To make it crystal clear about Reference... MSDN defines it as... The ref keyword causes an argument to be passed by reference, not by value. The effect of passing by reference is that any change to the parameter in the called method is reflected in the calling method. For example, if the caller passes a local variable expression or an array element access expression, and the called method replaces the object to which the ref parameter refers, then the callers local variable or the array element now refer to the new object.
Oh, I didn't get that the first time. I see what you mean. I would like to do that, but it's getting what the code in try block would be that's really the issue here. What I mean is if instead I had something like this (assume all proper scoping and instantiation is present): class TheValue { decimal X; decimal Y; } class TheObject { TheValue Value0; TheValue Value1; } Now I could add a collection to TheObject, like this: class TheObject { TheValue Value0; TheValue Value1; List&lt;TheValue&gt; Values; } And after instantiating everything and adding all of the TheValue objects to the List, they are all now settable using a loop.
Take a look at the [Immutable Object Graph](https://github.com/AArnott/ImmutableObjectGraph). Look at it for the code generation side, rather than the immutable object graph side (though thats useful too). With that and partial classes, you should be able to do what you need to do, or at least get closer. We're using it for our engine to generate some useful general case code, in addition to the IOG part. If youre coming from *Scala*, IOG is exactly like case classes. 
How are you serializing the data? To string, byte? Also, does it really matter what the value type is? Does the system the data gets sent to care? You could also do something along the lines of: &gt; var myTuple = new Tuple&lt;int,string,object&gt;(1,"decimal", 12.95); This would remove the need for reflection, store position, value type and value. You can then pretty easily extract the values and iterate over a list.
Well, no, that isn't accurate either. `ref` does pass arguments by reference, that what it's there for. Again, passing an argument by reference and an argument being a reference type are two completely separate things. You can pass reference type arguments by reference if you want to modify the reference, i.e. not the referenced object but the reference to the object. An example for this would be [Interlocked.Exchange](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/f2090ex9%28v=vs.110%29.aspx).
I agree there are workflows where you would need to actually do work on the reference itself. I was under the impression that the ref keyword essentially changes the *value* that is *copied*. Without the keyword, a copy of the actual value of a value type is copied; with it, a copy of the value of the reference is copied. You can see this in action by passing a reference type (like a class) into a method, and then newing up the object against that reference. While you can change values within your original class, newing will create a new object with a new reference, which won't return to the caller. However, if you pass the class with the ref keyword, and then new it up in your method, your original object will now point to the new object instead.
Here is a series from MSDN Channel 9 that might interest you: https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C-Sharp-Fundamentals-Development-for-Absolute-Beginners
What about composition? You should favor composition over inheritance anyway.
sure, and that's what i'm convinced will be what we end up doing (based on other comments in this thread). I was just trying to avoid 'threading' a logging object throughout the entire system.
For those that don't understand, it's a reference to a show called Lost.
Fair enough. :) In my travels, exactly what you say has caused a lot of confusion in developer circles - mainly because there are values, references, value types, reference types, pass by value semantics, pass by reference semantics, and so on, and none of them necessarily imply any other - which is the trap I think people often fall into.
Wow I'm still lost lol
Look at the errors you are getting - they are telling you exactly what the problem is that the compiler is complaining about. It should also be telling you the line number, but I'll point out where they are for you. **Unassigned local variable 'employeeType'** - the fourth line in your Main() method looks like this: char employeeType; This is a warning, so it really shouldn't stop you from compiling, unless you have your project set to report all warnings as errors. In any case, you aren't assigning it a value there. You *are* assigning it a value down lower in the method - however, if you trace through, you'll see that is inside a try block. What this means is that the variable has the possibility of being unassigned in at least one code path through your program. In this case, if any of the lines before your assignment throw an exception, the variable will remain unassigned. You can solve this by determining what a default value should be and assigning it at the outset. **Cannot implicitly convert type 'double' to string'** - you probably see this on multiple lines in your program, such as: employeeIDBox.Text = employeeID; employeeSalaryBox.Text = "" + weeklySalary; The first one isn't working because you're trying to set a double directly into a string. C# doesn't have an implicit conversion to do this, so you need to convert the value to text yourself. The second one looks like you're trying to force a type coercion to string (were you a JS programmer before?). This kind of coercion works in languages like JavaScript because of the way the language is built. Again, C# doesn't support this kind of hacky type coercion, so you need to convert the value to text yourself. I hope this helps!
Okay so there are a few tricks you can probably play with just passing objects and all, but the answer for this stuff is pretty much always inflection. It's the nature of the beast really, you can do line by line setting properties, or you can just maybe hide the inflection a little bit.... using System; using System.Collections.Generic; using System.Linq; using System.Text; using System.Threading.Tasks; using System.Drawing; using System.Dynamic; using System.Web.Script.Serialization; namespace RedditConsoleApp { class TheObject { public decimal Value0; public decimal Value1; } class Program { static void Main(string[] args) { TheObject obj; IDictionary&lt;string, object&gt; whynoinflection = new ExpandoObject(); //edit you might just be able to do dictionary not an expando object too, didn't test but it should work fine if you don't want System.Dynamic whynoinflection["Value0"] = 2.67; whynoinflection["Value1"] = 13.37; dynamic d = whynoinflection; //EDIT: You don't even need this, you can just convert whynoinflection var ser = new JavaScriptSerializer(); obj = ser.ConvertToType&lt;TheObject&gt;(d); Console.WriteLine("Value0: {0}, Value1: {1} ", d.Value0, d.Value1); Console.WriteLine("Value0: {0}, Value1: {1} ", obj.Value0, obj.Value1); Console.ReadKey(); } } } You could also, since json.net tends to be a bit faster than the MS javascript serializer, build the object using a stringbuilder writing it out in stringified json and then convert it. I would give you an example but that's kind of a pain... Bottom line, I would make a little sample project just like what's above, showcase the solution and that it really isn't much slower at all and hope no one asks about inflection ;) But seriously, as a developer it is your job to pitch these better, more maintainable practices to the people in charge. You can reduce god knows how much code into 5-6 lines, *tops* for the insignificant, *really insignificant* cost of a few milliseconds? Seconds? Here because I feel so strongly about not placing absurd restrictions on developers I wrote a little sample pitch: But /u/sengoku why is it more maintainable? Inflection is just so terrible and slow and stuff! Well Mr. Bossman, we can narrow down issues with the import to literally 5 lines of code without knowing what field is incorrect. We can also add or remove columns to the data set without making significant changes to the code base here, simply by adding more properties to the class. We could also remove properties from the class without actually changing the implementation at all. In short, we improve flexibility, readability, maintainability for the price of, what is in the overall lifetime of the application, a few milliseconds/seconds.
It's example code intended to invoke the question: Is there a reason to avoid using try/catch's on methods that have lots of for-each statements that could possibly cause an exception, over doing all the try/catch inside the actual foreach loop? Perhaps such as #2 making it harder to debug in some way, etc?
Ah, okay, I understand now. Generally, you want to place the try/catch block only around the specific code that might fail and throw an exception. Performance-wise, there won't be a difference between the two versions, since execution will halt on the first exception. The other main concern is readability, in which case wrapping only the failure points (option #2) is preferable. 
It's only confusing if you think that it has anything to do with reference or value types. It doesn't. `ref` passes a reference to the storage location. The type is irrelevant. The default behavior is that the value of the expression is passed, i.e. passed by value.
Could you build a JSON object out of the reader and then use JSON.Net to deserialize it? Sure, that uses reflection internally, but sometimes dumb requirements require dumb workarounds. It also has [benchmarks](http://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/JsonNetVsDotNetSerializers.htm#ID1RBSection).
This is the best way as it improves readability of code. Also how it is described to be done in the book 'Clean Code' of Robert C. Martin. Although it isn't required to read that book to know this. 
Please read the side bar and read formatting help. Learn to format your code in Reddit posts. In back and edit your post now. 
Ref causes it to pass by reference. Otherwise it's by value. 
OP. I agree with the above. It probably wasn't as pointed as this, but if you want to make this Open Source and have people contribute you need to be very clear about the intent of the code and usage (Documentation and unit tests help this). People will have a hard time contributing if they aren't clear and may inadvertently take the code in another direction. Don't be discouraged though the changes arent insurmountable. Have a look at some of the popular code on github to give you an idea about structure, naming conventions etc.
You can replace with a MethodGroup, but this is still an issue as far as I know: http://vibrantcode.com/2013/02/19/lambdas-vs-method-groups/
I think it will come across better if the arrogance is toned down a bit :p
Unless he labeled them wrong (which I suspect) the difference was about half a millisecond. 1ns = 1e-6ms, so it was 1.5ms in the function group case and. .9ms for the lambda. If he meant ms instead, which seems more likely, then yeah, 1500 seconds vs 900 is noticeable.
Thanks for the tips =) I will not easily discouraged. I'll make the changes as soon as posible.
Just wanted to say I really like your code review comments. Even though I'm not OP, they've been very helpful to me!
RunAndCatchSimple and RunAndCatchComplex do two separate things. If an exception gets thrown in RunAndCatchSimple the exception would be documented and then the method will stop. If an exception gets thrown in RunAndCatchComplex the exception would be documented and the loop would continue. If a single exception in your loop should end the loop use RunAndCatchSimple. I don't like RunAndCatchComplex. Try/Catch aren't expensive to enter, but exceptions are expensive to catch. What if your array had 100,000 items and each one threw an exception? Generally, I use Try/Catch on critical segments of code (where an exception should end the program) or code that may run once. There may be a reason to Try/Catch in a potentially long loop, but often there is a better method.
Although I disagree with the language and attitude used by GetRekt he and you both have a valid points. It's one thing to have a community for intellectual discussions versus being a help desk for people too lazy to use google.
Try the yellow book from the sidebar. A non-dev from work only had good things to say about it.
What about extension methods? 
Most of the apps allow you to swipe from the right side of the screen towards the left and the sidebar will show.
I mean, it depends on the video. When I was first taught arrays, this is how we were taught. After about 2 weeks they said "Ok, now let me show you how to create arrays faster and more efficiently", but when you're building those basic skills, you throw efficiency to the curb. Its like how you would write a class and interact with its properties, then they would teach you how to make overloaded constructors so you didn't have to create the object and then set the properties. Baby steps (so hopefully this is a beginner video)