just because
:sadface: when it had nearly nothing on it. 
This subreddit is the emptiest thing since MySpace
[](/b17 "I wonder how many people on Scratch are redditors and just don't know about this sub.")I know... it's very unfortunate.
but you can't hotlink to youtube anyway
Amazing, but buggy. Upvotes for you!
ಠ___ಠ
who downvoted pretty much everything here? most things are 0...
Congrats!
I think you could make a variable named time that adds one to itself after waiting one sec and then add the time to the glide time of the fruits. Very funny game!
I'm afraid I don't, but the guys over in the Advanced Topics forum might, if you haven't already asked there. 
I'm sure someone on the AT forums might know of one and be nice enough to host a download for it, just like Harakou said.
Please note that any 1.4 projects created after January 25 will not be there.
I have noticed though, it seems like Java as far as what it each program block thing says goes.
the original web player converts to java, but its not as fast as the flash player.
Thanks.
It does look quite similar, and that is what I thought. How would I import sprites into a java program.
=)
Yes.
Okay here it is. I just uploaded to the website. I was using 1.4: http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/10254696/
I have the same problem
We have one; it's right in the "Operators" section!
Maybe try using the online editor? Or the new offline one.
Introducing the new S4A website with some tutorials, examples and documentation, plus the new S4A mail list for anyone to join and ask/share anything related to S4A. Happy Scratching! :)
Looks pretty cool. I'll have a play with it when I get home.
Oh, thanks for pointing that out!
You can make them curators to the studio then they can add whatever projects they want (even not their own), or you can add their projects yourself. This is a very good and productive way to use studios :)
Ah, almost everything uses effects. Would it lag less if I baked those effects into different costumes? And with nesting if statements into forever loops, if one of the if statements uses a (wait 4 seconds) tile, it prevents the rest if the if statements from being checked until that wait is over, so how do I nest my characters attacks so that all if statements can be checked at the same time without having a forever loop for each one?
Oh, replacing graphic effects with costumes would make it lag *much* less, on the order of 20x as fast. About your wait block: yes, that would block your forever loops and if statements. I made a solution thing you can check out on the Scratch Wiki [here.](http://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/User:Scratchisthebest/Sandbox#Need_help_w.2F_blocks.2C_plz_call_me)
AWESOME! Thank you! So broadcasts take up much less resources than the forever loops right? 
Not really. This little solution here makes sure that the wait block doesn't stop your other "if" statements from running.
Never mind. I figured it out. If anyone in the future needs help doing this, I ended up using the 10^ item last. I didn't know that the 10^ _ option existed. Edit: Actually, the problem isn't solved. My method isn't working correctly. For example, for the input 5, I am ending up with 1010, so an extra 0 Pretty sure that has to do with the 10^ operator. So confused.
Make sure that you're starting with 10\^0, not 10\^1. Remember that the first digit of any base-n number system is n\^0.
Sure thing!
Reminds me of nintendo. I haven't been on scratch in years, yet everything is the same just with a different design and unimaginative motion sensing. EDIT: by the way, a majority of these features were promised in 1.4
"Scratch can't really do that much." What exactly do you expect it to do that it doesn't? Make sandwiches? Scratch can do an unbelievable variety of things if one is not limited in the imagination department. Have you checked the Explore tab on the website/app? Here you can see all kinds of things kids can do with it. Some of the challenges I have given my grade three and four students: ~ tell a story ~ have conversations between characters (text or recorded) ~ make games (maze games, pong, soccer, pacman, etc.) ~ present information ~ and more 
Google 'scratch curriculum' - there are a few well-written guides that might help. I am planning to do a few intro classes for some second-graders in the spring and I have been looking at the guide to come up with sessions that will be fun for all, not just the tech-saavy nerds. I think they key is probably to come up with simple 'key' objectives but then have add-on tasks for the handful of kids that are done in the first five minutes.
for my 4th and 5th graders first assignment is to make a sprite move around the screen with arrow keys. Second is to make a maze game where if the sprite touches a wall, it goes back to the start Next is to have the sprite avoid a bad guys that slowly chases the sprite while the sprite tries to catch a target that randomly floats around the screen. They have to keep track of "lives" and points for catching the target. I also have some Lego WeDo sets so the kids can do some basic robotics.
I can't figure it out, if you do, tell me please.
This is what I have made. [image](http://puu.sh/5aSP6/620e58f8ec.png) You can download the project [here](http://puu.sh/5aSRE/c8f29a17a3.sb) Tell me if either of these stop working
See my comment below.
Will do. Happy cake day by the way.
Thanks!
oh yeah, i guess i forgot that.
I don't know the solution, but I had the same problem yesterday.
It's good! The main things that I would change should I make this aren't really problems with the visible, playable part of the game. You asked [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/cs50/comments/1ukg6v/the_legend_of_malandebugging_the_deungeon_pset0/) about changing the screen that shows before pressing the green flag. All you have to do is share your project while the screen you would like to have showing before the project starts is visible in the editor. You could simply enter the editor, get to where you want the default stage view to be, and share the changes. This is also the thumbnail for your project. One small thing I notice is you are using four (five counting Link) separate sprites to do the job of one attack button. I see that you have them set up to work in each direction. What you could do, since the attack costume for Link is already unique from his others, is simply draw the sword onto those costumes. To sense it properly (without making his entire body do damage, as sprite sensing would do), use color sensing. Make his sword a somewhat different color from anything else in the project (it can just be a slightly off version of Link's tunic, nothing gaudy and standing out) and have the bugs sense touching this color to die, instead of checking if they are touching every single possible sword sprite. You have a trash scripts sprite, it looks like. Are these scripts meant to be active but still simply "Bad Scripts" despite having a function, or were you preserving mistakes? If the latter, you left the When Green Flag Clicked hat on them, leaving it active. I tested it without this script and the experience didn't really change, but I don't know if you'd want to look into that. You use a complicated variable system to set Link's direction and check for costume. Click the little blue "i" that appears when hovering over a sprite's thumbnail and set "rotation style" to locked, so that you can change which direction he is facing without him looking any different. So then you can use the [point in direction v] block coupled with the step system you have now, or along with [move () steps] and [set costume to v] for higher efficiency, but I'm not sure about absolutely everything you're trying to accomplish with certain scripts so I won't say that absolutely needs changing. Hope this helps some and isn't just suggesting you change things that I didn't realize were actually entirely necessary. Very good first-ish project. (Side note: Scratch is a *very* family-friendly/kid-oriented site, so you'll want to change the name of "fuckedup", if it's noticed it will be removed)
Yeah, it seemed like you can't set a variable, then call it back in a separate block. I decided to make it broadcast it instead, which worked out alright. 
This is my project for the Harvard CS50 edx course. My goal was to make as close to a 1-for-1 copy of the original Mortal Kombat Test Your Might mini game. I used [this gameplay footage](http://youtu.be/Mo68Rdc9WYE) as my reference material and I think you'll see it's VERY close. The only notable difference is the lack of the material destruction sprites - I can't seem to find these anywhere online. If you know where I can get them, please tell me and I'll add them! I'm currently working on version 2.1 which will have a secret stage ala Reptile and a Fatality! If you have any suggestions on how to make this better, please let me know your thoughts.
I set the button to explode once it reaches 1,000,000.
I re-made Cookie Clicker in scratch as a school project. Any ideas are appreciated!
Cool, but complicated when I had decimals for cookies and decimals in the price. I suggest using a (round_) block to round all the numbers to whole digits. 
Hmm, weird. Can you take a picture of this so I can work this bug out?
Turns out I'm just terrible at Set. At first I thought it was only 1 feature had to be the same. Then I looked up the instructions, and I was going to show you this gfy before I realized that even with instructions I am terrible at it. http://gfycat.com/NaturalAdmirableKoalabear
yeah, that is a problem. If you click on the same card 3 times, it thinks you found a set.
It's pretty cool but I couldn't buy things. Even when I had enough.
I'm not a lawyer, but I think it might be [both](http://www.lib.uconn.edu/copyright/plagiarismVsCopyright.html). It *might* fall under the fair use [exception to copyright law](http://www.lib.uconn.edu/copyright/exceptions.html), but I don't see the point of playing with copyrighted work, especially that which is monetized (through ads). I don't think it falls under the section that allows for [educational use](http://www.copyright.gov/title17/92chap1.html#110) , as he published it publicly and it was not explicitly asked for by the educator/teacher. He explicitly states that it is "A copy of Cookie Clicker from - http://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/", so he's not trying to pass it off as his own without attribution to the original source, which would be plagiarism. It's been my experience that teachers don't generally like students to directly copy texts/assettsess, even if it was done legally. This being said, I think he's done a pretty good job with his clone, and I found myself getting sucked into it like I do with the actual/original.
Wouldn't it depend on his use and purpose of this. From what I see he simply recreated something to learn the techniques involved with making it himself. And then is just simply showing it to us. I don't think that falls under copyright infringement and even if it does technically there is no court were this would hold up. lol "Well we made this. and then he copied it and showed it to like 15 people." lol
Pretty sure if your using this program for a class and going to specify one point to that class it's to learn to program.
Awesome! But don't focus on JB. Make up your own characters, own your own game. You can go places with it. Celebrity parody will only be relevant for a very short time. That said, spittin' game is hilarious.
Yes, A "specific celebrity" being parodied will only be relevant for a short time (right now, Justin doing dumb stuff is HOT), however parodying celebrities (or in my case, anything worth parodying) will always be awesome. Who knows, maybe this becomes my thing :)
Ok weird al.
 Look at [pointer] Turn 180°
That's awesome. Some people have told me the same, it really changes from person to person/PC to PC.
Depends on the speed + the block you used for movement. Would you give us some more information (ideally: just give a link to the project or at least take a screenshot of the scripts).
I [remixed](http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/17471704/) it. Please take a look at the few changes I made and the comments I left inside the project. I'm going to delete my remix tomorrow (January 5th) if that's okay with you, and if you use anything of that project, it would be nice to mention me, but that's up to you. ^^*Insert* ^^*shameless* ^^*plug* ^^*for* ^^*my* ^^*other* ^^*projects* ^^*here*
Thanks! i gave you credit on it! 
This isn't the right subreddit your posting on.
read the subreddit information: Sub-reddit for fans of the Scratch programming environment. Not affiliated with MIT. For official information go to http://scratch.mit.edu/
WTF
Lol I was so excited to be a Scratch DJ...with software.
I'll do this when I get home.
I hope little snippets are fine. It's currently saved on my ubuntu system at work and I haven't uploaded it to the Scratch website. [first one](http://imgur.com/OUKUTo7) [second one](http://imgur.com/j24sXJ9)
Thank you. I didn't know this was possible in Scratch. I couldn't have guessed this. 
Well, its a start don't stop now. You have the collision down, now instead of crashing into sides of mazes, try some moving sprites instead. 
And yeah that totally took care of the problem. Thank you. I now have a great way of generating random scenarios for my students.
I had to cheat to win :( 
One way to do it: if [touching mouse pointer] glide [1] secs to x:[0]y:[0] (pick x and y values to where you want the sprite to run away to)
What script exactly do you want to run from sprite1 ? The simplest solution in most cases would be to use the "When I receive" and "broadcast" blocks, but you seem to know that already. Then what exactly is your problem ?
I have already done everything I persume but thanks
I might be able to help with the stylesheet.
Awesome! I'm getting through it pretty well right now, but I'll ask you if I don't know what to do. One thing I don't know how to change but would like to is the page header. Not the logo, I mean the light blue part at the top of the page. Do you know how to change that color or how to change it to an image?
Thanks!
Hello! Just wondering, but how do you feel about Snap!/BYOB posts?
Great, so this subreddit won't be so inactive anymore? :D Also, are you a member of the Scratch Team?
wassup wassup wassup xD
Hi! I'm glad to hear that this sub is getting some much-needed attention. :)
Can't promise you anything about site activity, although I wish I could! And no, I'm not a Scratch official, although I kinda wish I was :D My scratch account is [here](http://scratch.mit.edu/users/dixiklo/) btw, check it out if you want to.
I really don't mind them. There don't seem to be a lot of them, and since those programs are based off of Scratch (?), I think it's okay to post something about them every once in a while. But since Scratch 2.0, using BYOB seems pretty pointless *to me*. Then again, I didn't do much research on it and just used it very briefly a few years back.
I'm glad to be here! :)
Thanks! BTW, this subreddit is not officially associated with Scratch. Just keep that in mind :)
It's great. I am going to show it to my class. My kids are learning Scratch (grade 3 and 4).
Wow, it's cool, S4A and S4A only support Scratch 1.4, Makeblock kick their ass!
Thank you, you are welcome to! The descriptions of the scripts inside is in danish, unfortunately, as i made it as a school project.
Some of my kids played it today. They were very impressed.
Music related projects always interest me. This is a great one. I have made music projects to, namely one called *Songwriter* which allows you to arrange chords in different ways and play them back. Would be a good companion to your project ;)
IMO, the apples fall way too quickly and the farmer is way to slow for this to be any fun.
I'll assume you're using Scratch 2.0. Firstly, you want your bolt to appear where the wizard is. Go to the Motion tab, and use the &gt; Go To [sprite v] block. You should have it hidden and then make it appear after it has moved to the sprite. If it appears somewhere other than near the wizard, make sure you have set the costume centre of the wizard correctly. The position of the wizard is determined by the position of the costume centre. Also check the costume centre of the lightning bolt. Then you want it to move across the screen until it hits the edge or a bat. So make it repeat until &lt;&lt;touching [sprite v]&gt; or &lt;touching [edge v]&gt; and then change x by a value. Then make the script recursive if necessary, or simply use a loop to make it repeat itself. If you need any more help, feel free to ask, and please upvote.
Sorry, forgot to put the tutorial in. Tutorial: http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/940816/
try setting the yvelocity variable to 0 when touching the ground instead of 1. Just try. If it doesn't work, let me know. :)
It worked, but the only problem now is that it goes through the ground. Thanks.
Why? GPL3 is only about DRM. Not everyone agrees with Stallman that GPL3 is the saviour, you know.
You're crazy, that doesn't make any sense at all. /s
Can you please elaborate on this please? I don't keep up to date with licence versions I'm afraid, but I've used scratch and it is very good indeed. EDIT: Oh, there's a scratch subreddit. Thought I was in r/programming
Yay! Will you merge all @nathan's pull requests now? ;)
Ooo you know what this means ! Some one is going to be able to program right into it, the ability to output executables ! Visual Programming to *.exe ! Yeah !
You should preserve horizontal velocity even when the arrow keys are not pressed. Also, the ground detection seems a bit slow. Cool project though!
Maybe a game where you drive a car (top down view), and collect coins?
An assignment I give my 5th grade students: make a game where you control a sprite with the arrow keys. You have to collect a certain number of stars (or whatever) before the ghost catches you. The ghost will automatically follow you. There should be some barriers that you can't cross but the ghost can.
A maze game with creatures that walk the halls.
thanks
I was in 4th grade and I used scratch and I could make 10x better stuff than that lol... maybe give your students a bit more of a challenge? It makes it more fun that way :). I say give them a simple platformer base and have them "remix" it and make it their own.
I think its great. Control is snappy. How long did it take you?
Thanks, it really means a lot to me. At first you aimed with the mouse, but I changed it to keyboard because I think is more old school and harder. About 8 hours and another extra one for minor bug fixes and improvements.
That's really encouraging. did you do the art yourself?
Yes, pixelated art is really easy to do and I think it looks pretty good.
The last few weeks my son and I have been building games on his Raspberry Pi using Scratch. We've got 7 built so far and I'll be publishing them to his website over the next week or two and as we build more games. I hope you enjoy them!
Thanks a lot, I did notice this and I had thought I had removed it before uploading! (I used the downloaded version)
I love this idea, but I'm still a beginner so haven't got anything saved in my account yet. Will check out yours though. 
Username here is the same on Scratch, send me one please !
My username is the same as the one I have here : jji7skyline
I think you know my username ;)
Brilliant. I vote for this! 
This is a great idea. Hopefully our community will grow because of this. Also: My username is dixiklo on Scratch, so that really is me :)
I was just thinking about adding a new theme, with a selection similar to that in /r/gamegrumps. This particular style was already requested half a year ago. If you guys are in favour of it, let me know - I might start working on it on /r/scratchtest soon [!](http://www.re.reddit.com/r/scratchtest) :)
I love it, very nice. I vote yes!
Yay your here!
Sorry...:(
Hello!
:)
No need to apologize :) The rule didn't exist when you made your post, how could anyone be mad.
:)
My username is fmtfmtfmt2.
I lost the code for this project. SMH.
Mobile users are probably wondering what's going on right now :D
I'm getting a new therme on www.reddit.com, re.reddit.com is showing me Reddit's defualt theme.
I see. Might I suggest this theme? http://reddit.com/r/naut I believe it adapted to blend more with the Scratch brand could be a winner!
I like it but it's pretty overused if I'm honest. Of more people want to see it, we'll get it on here, but it's similar to our default anyways.
http://imgur.com/OLB8DUd pcDuino Scratch looks great - with ready access to the GPIO pins on the board through custom code blocks that are all pre-installed on the pcDuino Scratch version. Think this could even beat Pi Scratch looking at the blocks available and the interface.
I like it! Maybe make only the pupils red? (I don't know, the red eyes seem a little too big) 
I tried that, but then he just looked like the devil.
I'm a bit late to the party: Novice27b
nice job man - i couldn't die though lol
Thanks! That should be fixed now.
Thanks to /u/szayas for giving me a permanent earworm of the chiptune Highway to Hell :D Do any of you know someone who deserves some attention here (yourselves included)? [Let me know!](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=dixiklo9000)
http://scratch.mit.edu/discuss/topic/32094/?page=2#post-399292
You may want to copy the instructions here as well in case any of those websites go down in future.
I really like the tilting of the blocks! Also, the designs in the background look nice.
Did you create that text system? It's awesome! I really want to figure out how it works. Great game. :)
I toyed with it for 30 minutes. I think it's a subset of Scratch. I like it.
just wondering: why would we need a currency? I'm open to new ideas, just wondering.
The question I'm concerned with is if this is against MIT's rules. Maybe send them a quick e-mail?
What rule would this break? Are you referring to restrictions on cloud variables?
Yeah, they don't want chat rooms to be a thing in Scratch, they might not be happy about people using Scratch variables as a crypto currency.
I was thinking about using mesh from BYOB 
I liked it too when i made it and the dead penguin think makes it a litlle funny(or something) :)
Are you a New Scratcher?
Nope but new on linux :D
I kind of agree with you. In truth, the problem is partly because of Scratch 2.0 which makes it so easy to create a project. That doesn't mean that there are any less amazing projects than 1.4. I think that the general movement is forward, but with lots of fluff in the edges. And I believe the rules state that you should not post content unfit for children so I would edit out the rude word. 
Well, you must consider the *vast majority* of people coding on the platform are complete novices and IIRC the average age for the forums is 13 (this may be for the whole site; the "young" point still stands) and the forums themselves already I assume skew higher aged than the site as a whole. And a lot of purist Scratchers will get upset with me for saying so, but Scratch *simply isn't at that level* as far as programming and game design goes. It lags horribly once a script is a size that could do anything reasonably complex within a game. A lot of minuscule lag compounds over time when you use "too many" conditional or loop statements. It's designed to be kiddy in the first place and a lot of not ridiculously high expectations for a programming language go unfulfilled in the first place. Many times I've asked why some idea could never be added, and it's been "that is too complicated for 5 year olds." Spoiler alert: algebraic use of variables is too complicated for five year olds too. Oh and it'd help if the could-have-been revolutionary introduction of cloud data was actually possible to do anything useful like it could have been instead of them being so worry about edge-case misuses that they removed pretty much all needed functionality. Is it *possible* to make something grand with Scratch? Yes. I'd say it has been done on a couple of occasions. Is it a very enjoyable experience? Not really. I will say though, whenever I check the front page, the leaps forward in what people do tend to surprise me, being primarily a 1.4er myself.
Self posts that aren't family friendly are not allowed in this subreddit. Please refer to the sidebar for more information.
It is intended to be read, but you have a choice to read it, e.g. I could make a sandwich right now, but I have the choice not to, nothing is forcing me, and in this case, people can choose if they want to read it. 
How do they know not to read it? They don't.
Usually most kids would see a lengthy post and decide they couldn't be arsed, and would anyone the age of roughly 7 be doing on reddit anyways? Scratch doesn't exactly promote the subeditor.
Well, how about following the rules of this subreddit? Is that to much to ask of someone who is clearly above the age of 7? If it is, goodbye.
This is a work in progress, we have an awesome collaboration, see: [this](http://scratch.mit.edu/discuss/topic/50309/) We are planning to make it into an actual working game with a decent lag compensation! (we have to do it) 
It certainly looks promising, here's hoping we get to see more of it! :)
Looks awe, keep up the good work
Unshared.
Yeah checkout my profile for the new update which has a working loadingscreen
Ahaha, sorry! My name is EdenStudio
Just copy the link next time. http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/26186523/
Just like that. Remember that to change the value of a variable to something, use the [set (variable) to ( ) ] block.
If I use the [set (variable) to ( ) ] block and I drag the variable into the ( ) it uses the whole ( ) and I can't add * (-1) anymore, also if I write the name of the variable and * (-1) into the ( ) nothing happens
You need to use the green block [ ( ) + ( ) ] for that. Your whole script should look like this (on mobile, so no picture): [Set (variable) to [( (variable) - (1) )] ]
thanks!
Very nice first project! Exponentially better than 90% of other first projects.
Thank you.
Very enjoyable to play. Looks like you put a lot of work into the scripts. Well done.
Doesnt mean that he hasnt used Scratch ever before...
This is actually the first time that i used scratch ever. I understand the confusion though.
Thanks :D
Hmm... what aspect of a binary search do you need help with? It sounds like your assignment is just asking you to check for membership. (If the given number is in the list.) In case you're not familiar with the concept itself, here's a rundown: Let's say we have a sorted list of numbers, and we want to see if some number is in the list. Since we know that they're in order, we can look at the element in the middle. Is it greater than, or less than the number we're looking for? If it's less than our number, we know that our number *must* be in the second half of the list if it exists at all, and the other way around if it's greater. Now we're considering a list of only half the size as before, and we can do the same thing over again until we end up with an empty list or we find that the middle number is the number we're looking for. Here's an example: &gt;Is 4 in {1, 3, 4, 8, 12, 15, 20}? &gt; &gt;The number in the middle of this list is 8. Since 8 &gt; 4, we know that all the numbers past 8 in the list must also be greater than 4, and can't be equal to it. So we toss out that part of the list. &gt;Now we have {1, 3, 4}. The number in the middle this time is 3, which is less than 4. Now we have the opposite situation, and so we ignore everything in the list *before* (and including) 3. &gt;Now we have just {4}. The middle number here is, of course, 4. 4==4, so we've found the number that we're looking for, meaning 4 *is* in the list! Some things you may want to consider while writing your binary search in Scratch: * How will you find the element in the middle of the list? (Think about the length of the list.) What happens if the list has an even number of items and there are *two* numbers in the middle? (Can you write an *if* statement to check for this?) * How will you keep track of the list you're working with? Can you delete items from the list, or keep track of which range of list indexes you're considering? (One is easier, but one is more efficient.) * Sometimes, you might find the right number before you get down to a small list like in the example, and sometimes you won't find it at all. Make sure to take this into account! Apologies for the wall of text; I hope it helps. Feel free to ask questions if you still don't understand something. :)
I could not figure out how to say a sentence that has two variables and an additional word. May be I should make a new text variable that is addition1 And addition2? *Edit: I used your suggestion to simplify the look of the program. But it looks like now it will be difficult for kids to understand and change it. Oh well.*
Beautifully made, but I was hoping that it would skip level 3.
Good job!
Wow, quite cool!
Haha, good one!
Wow ill try to make it wireless if i can!
This is pretty cool! Keep going! The aesthetic appeal is great
I was just playing with S4A... how is yours different from that? I haven't looked at your interface, I will when I have a chance. Sounds like a great idea, more!!!
Just beat my kid- yes! Hard to understand score while in play. It's a little fast for the size of the playing field.
Thanks for the suggestion :) I tried to add this but I don't think I've done a very good job (if the player is going more than 50 units of speed, turn 7 degrees else turn 10 degrees).
Everything below the 'create clone' block should be under a 'when I start as a clone' block and should be part of the bomb sprite. Currently that stuff is acting on the main sprite, not the clones.
You have to share your project in order for others to view it.
I would suggest a secure password.
Contact the Scratch Team right away! They can often restore deleted projects, and they will prevent the hacker from causing any more damage!
No problem! Glad you could get it working. :)
Change your password to something totally different. If you're registered on other websites with the same password, change your password there too.
It seems pretty low to me to be trying to make money from a program which other people have created and made freely available.
Hi, EwanHughesArmy! Thanks for checking this out. I see what you mean but I have to disagree that this is "low" - this is not selling the free program, it's offering optional, premium courses for education purposes. If you don't want them, you don't have to have them. However, there are teachers who would happily pay $5 for this sort of resource for their children.
Hi Skyline! It's stevetheipad.
Hi! I didn't know you were a mod on this sub :P
I am, as of a month or so ago. Didn't know you had a reddit! 
That's great! I'm kinda new to reddit I guess. 
Well I've not been here as long as some others, but yea I've been here just over a year.
Ah. I'm new but feel like I'm a veteran already. :P Know any other old Scratchers that have Reddit accounts?
Way too hard.
I did put a recommendation to puy health down. Do you think I should upload a easy version 
Wow - nice job. Suggest making level 1 easier. Slow down the chicken attack. A walkthrough of the game objectives would also help users understand the overall strategy. Nicely executed code. 
So should I put that on the description?
That might help.
Slow down level 1 so that players can understand the game play and objectives. Add an overview that details the objectives. You could do this as part of the "learn the lore" by adding a screenshot with instructions on the objectives / strategy. I wish I could have done something this ambitious for my first scratch game!
It's absolutely infuriating having to click the green flag, then wait for the logo, then press 1, then find and click the right button to start again, every time you die. And you die a lot. I don't even know what I'm supposed to be doing. Shooting the chickens doesn't seem to affect them.
Sorry about the trouble. I'm thinking about making an easier mode with enemies with less health. The chickens have quite about 5 health each. The restarting relates to the story. If you go into the editor, you can listen to the ending voiceover. Did the chickens change to the sprite with lines above its head? Also can I ask how long you tried before giving up?
The game does have other levels with different enemies after the chickens. I think making the chickens have 1 health or just showing the variable will help prevent confusion. 
The players control the opposite character! Other than that nice work :)
also will get reddit gold for anyone who could help me by writing this script haha :D
tl;dr: Someone made a group and tried to add everyone to it, then someone deleted everyone from the group. --- Not sure why this is such a big deal, this kind of stuff happens all the time (especially on reddit)
Now i have fixed all of the bugs!
JamesOuO + oromi, invite please!
It needs to be a global variable
If you double click on the variable, it will just show the orange part and not the name.
agreed. ~Clicking on the variable name will cycle through the styles, better still have a sprite that does it for you
You either have to: * make it a global variable, as /u/captainth said, which may or may not conflict with your other scripts * click on it until the text is hidden and you can only see the number, as /u/Stv13579 said, but you might prefer to be able to see the text * if neither of those options suit you, you could use the second option and draw a sprite to sit before the number that displays the text you want (which I think is what /u/siewake was getting at)
Or you could have a global variable that is constantly set equal to the private variable.
Why have the private variable in that case?
One change I think you need: instead of "When arrow pressed, turn" on its own you want to put in your forever loop: "If arrow key pressed, turn". As it is, the turning is awkward because of that phenomenon you'll notice when text editing where if you press the arrow key the cursor moves one place and waits half a second before continuing. EDIT: Like [this](http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/35750676/). Also I forgot to say good job on the game, though! It's cute and fun and seems to work like you wanted it to apart from my suggestion.
scratch.mit.edu/projects/34132398/
So, you're a girl, why should we give you special help? EDIT Sorry, not trying to be mean. Also, what do you need help with?
Yes, it has to be done on Scratch
Use color touching color with the color of the head touching the color of the line in replacement to touching color.
Thanks for the advice, but sadly that's not doing it. When I use the color touching color block it just does not seem to detect the line!? I am not sure if it does not consider the line to be part of the background or what… it just does not work. I also tried making the center of the sprite a point just behind the sprite and using the touching color block. Still no luck. It's always touching the color. I am wondering about recording all the x,y cords I cross into a list then checking the list to see if I am repeating any of them? Just not quite sure how to do this. Thank you!
The stamp function reprints the sprite as it is in that form, which is pixelated. Perhaps you should try using clones?
It's very hard to "convert" a raster image to vector form automatically, so your costume is probably still a bitmap. Try drawing a sprite with the vector tools and see what happens.
That's a good idea, hopefully I can figure it out (it's hard!)
As far as I know that doesn't exist, since Scratch 2.0 uses Flash and not Java.
You can find a decent guide [here.](http://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/Scrolling_Platformer_Tutorial) It's not exactly what you're looking for, but it gives an example of a generic hitbox that can be pretty easily adapted to detecting hits for a specific portion of your sprite. You can also color different parts of the sprite if you want to detect which part/side of it was hit.
yeah.... this means i will have to recolor a LOT of sprites (faces) to a slightly different color :( I was hoping I could have an actual hitbox that I could use to detect collision but it appears that "color detection" is the only viable method :(
i kept the color touching but i just moved the center of the player sprite back so that when it is moving forward its not touching the line but is moving but the line is being drawn shortly behind it [here](http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/40988130/) is my remake of how i did it.
Trippy! Nice graphical effects, I haven't looked in the code and I'm trying to work out how you did them and not really coming up with much.
it's not that complex, all i am doing is using the flappy bird idea, but rather than x coardinates and y heights, i am using degrees and distance from center, then using sine &amp; cosine to convert from degrees to x and y coords
Still got to figure out the drawing effect of the words at the beginning and the 3d rotating effect for the level start.
you should give credit to the creator
So you saw my post? Nice.
Hi
Noice.
i did this to [\[link\]](http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/25382743/)
Well I haven't really gone on Scratch in ages, but I remember a long time ago, there was a famous user named RHY and then some numbers afterwards, but he got banned for saying something, and then created a new account but barely uploaded anything afterwards. However, he moved from creating awesome scratch projects to doing games in flash, and last I remembered, I saw a game of his on newsgrounds. I'm not sure where he is right now, though.
nice, I remember RHY. He had some amazing games. I do recall some drama with things he said, but with Scratch's filter so aimed at younger kids, who knows if what he said was really that bad.
I saw Rhy on Ludum Dare, he made a pretty sweet multiplayer snowboarding game in 48 hours.
The only thing I can remember is some "company" wanting to expand to making console games. I don't think anyone involved was actually prepared to do that in any way and they kind of just disappeared. veggieman still makes music and stuff, but that was more an independent activity from Scratch that he initially promoted on it. Also, while Scratch's filter is heavy, RHY really was kind of a jerk..
haha thanks man. I often fondly look back at them, but when I do, I always think "people thought this was funny?!" I guess the bar is lower for middle schoolers. Oh shit I just noticed your username, I definitely remember you too. Good times :P
true. That's why I really have been trying to get a "better" version of MHM on youtube for the past... well, 4 years, but nothing has ever materialized. I'm honestly amazed it got so big on Scratch, cuz the censorship actually limited it a lot. I remember it was this huge deal when we said "crap" in an episode. But when I tried to sit down and make some episodes in Flash, I realized the premise was kinda worn thin. the whole "I'm not happy!" "yes you are!" "No I'm not!" just isn't that funny. Idk I'm hoping to put out some sort of animated series soon, just probably not MHM.
Caveman64 made this and I saw it in the recently made projects
Hey Soup! Long time, no see. This is stevetheipad.
I love Scratch. I use it ever day, have taught it to students for almost a decade. I've never been more frustrated with Scratch then while answering the multiple choice questions about counting the bumps and turns in a square wave. Ugh. The assignments are fun, but the quiz structure (at least in the early weeks) reminds me of why I don't ever test students about Scratch.
I would tell your kids to look at other people's work and leech off of that.
What grade level?
Hard to explain in English, since I'm a Belgian Teacher. Basically High School/Secondary school. The level is ASO, which translates as 'general high school' designed specifically to prepare students for further education upon graduation. The students are around the age of 16.
I'm not sure "know everything" is a viable strategy for teaching, but you let me know how it goes! I'm not sure what you mean about needing string manipulation and integers for "visual results." Do you have a specific example? If you're working with students over 14 or so, consider launching them into some of the Project Euler problems. Chunky math puzzles that reward careful analysis and problem setup. I've had middle school students work through the first few (studio here: http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/325638/ ) If you're considering pushing past the first few, you might consider using Snap! instead of Scratch. Better function creation and a robust collection of string/list tools make it far more pleasant for anything that requires large search or sorts. Can you give some more context for how/where/when you'll be teaching? Prompts that would be satisfying and compelling for 3 weeks of 90 minute classes would make a mess of once a week for 45. 
Then I wouldn't be much help. My students are grade three. But I find once you show them the basics of Scratch, they start figuring it out pretty quickly.
Thank you very much! The way the bullets were fired came from the scratch wiki. You're awesome! 
No problem, it was fun having a go at Scratch after a while inactive. 
It may take a while to do, but one solution that would work would be to create a variable for each sprite that records their direction, and then when a fish collides with another they both check to see the direction of one another, and turn in the opposite direction of the other fish. If you can't figure out how to do that, or it doesn't work, please tell me.
Hopefully [this](http://i.imgur.com/WZslIgN.jpg) should help. You can change the "play sound []" to "play sound [] until done" if you want, I'm not sure what type of thing you're trying to go for.
You're awesome! I've done just what you've said, but it plays 3 out of 4 sounds instead of just choosing 1. [Am I doing something wrong?](http://imgur.com/HtvxYJf)
Ya, I have no idea how to do that haha.
If you have a "speed" variable, then just increase the speed per level, maybe (level * number).
There is a sprite direction sensing insert-block in the sensing category. Just use that with a &lt;[]=[]&gt; inser-block and an if C-block.
This would work. Just a reminder that for 90% of use cases, you'll want to use a bigger nested conditional to check for sprite facing direction X +/- 5 degrees. Sprite_Dir &gt; Target-5 AND Sprite_Dir &lt; Target+5 Equals happens in math class. Everywhere else, check within a range. 
Or use variables to determine angles and positions and read those
Since the arrow keys only have 4 directions, you can't do 360 degrees this way. However what you can do is something like this: Forever{ If &lt;right arrow key pressed&gt;{ Rotate 15 degrees clockwise } If &lt;left arrow key pressed&gt;{ Rotate 15 degrees counter clockwise } } (Note: these names might not be exactly what they are in scratch, I'm on mobile, so I can't look it up)
[This is the code](http://i.imgur.com/utJBQHr.png) Remember that if you want more accurate rotation (n.b. this will be much slower), then you should change the '15' to something lower.
The only problem with this code is that it will keep turning if i only want to go left or right
For as long as the key is held, you'll keep spinning, but if you tap it, you'll only turn the initial 15 degrees.
Would you mind sharing what you have? It will allow us to give more tailored advice.
&gt; Dozens and dozens of mother's day cards &gt; 1-10 results Lol. Haha, I like Mitch Resnick. I also remember this old website format, I loved it so much!
Are you saying that you want the objects to not go through other objects?
It might help to think through what behavior you would like to see, rather than trying to describe the behavior you want to avoid. Imagine two small enemies are on a course towards each other. What should happen? Does one need to change direction? Do both change direction and they bounce apart? Is a momentary collision OK, so long as they quickly pas through each other and separate again? I haven't played Tilt To Live, but from this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rQ3JAHQ2YEg shows numerous spots where enemy sprites overlap for a moment or two. Like Geometry Wars, there is no rigid collision detection for enemy units. Just like in most 2d Shumps, enemy ships don't worry about enemy bullet streams. What keeps the enemies from clumping in Geometry Wars is clear and very distinct movement patterns for the different types of enemies. IN that little clip of Tilt To Live, I could see several different explosion patterns for the red dots, the board wiping path of the red bars, etc. Geometry Wars uses a closed screen, where enemies are trapped in place and will accumulate if the player doesn't' destroy them. As an aside, this is why I love GW2's Pacifisim mode. If you look at any 10 second clip of this video, you can see how this mode uses the clumping behavior of a single enemy type of great effect. https://youtu.be/Zop3SQZjA70?t=1m53s Other avoidance games, like Bit Pilot on iOS, take another path and have enemies pass through and leave the play area. There's a ton of overlap in BitPilot, but since the projectiles aren't chasing the player, it feels like incredibly heavy traffic and not like a clump. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_LbLVoRDm4U Any Scratch game that has "chase enemies" which continually point to the player and move will also have clumping. Given that basic strategy, you can modify it in ways that reduce the clumping. Might try modifying the direction the enemies point in to break them up a bit. Might try varying speed levels, so the clump strings out across the Stage. Steal some insight from PacMan and have enemies that move towards places near the player, rather than directly at her. (If you've never read through this, it's mind blowing. Finally, clear explanations for why the Red ghost is such a jerk!) http://gameinternals.com/post/2072558330/understanding-pac-man-ghost-behavior tl;dr Think about other ways to move the enemies. Collision detection for each sprite is super hard and slow. 
I purposely avoid structure when teaching Scratch, but I start with a little structure. I am usually teaching grade 3 or thereabouts. This is what I do. I spend the first five minutes of the first lesson introducing the most important aspects of Scratch (stage, sprites, the most basic commands, etc.). I show them how to make a simple program moving Scratch around. I then let them play around with movement commands. In each successive lesson I introduce a new idea like if statements and then ask them to write a program with if statements or incorporate them into an older program they wrote. After 6 or 7 lessons, I find that the more inquisitive kids are figuring stuff out on their own. I then start getting the kids to teach each other. When a child comes up to me and says, "How do I make a teleporting unicorn?", I ask, "Who can teach Chelsea how to make a teleporting unicorn?" Eventually I stop teaching altogether and just help them fine tune their programs. 
Thanks for your feedback. 
That explains it brilliantly, thank you. Now go and get some sleep!
We are a 100% Linux household - don't happen to know if Visual Basic is possible on Linux? Java is not a huge issue nor would be C++. Thanks for the suggestions!
They are much more likely to believe they are capable of doing something when another student teaches them. If I teach them something, they sometimes assume it is so difficult that only an adult can learn it. It also frees me up to help someone else with a tougher problem. And thanks.
Show us the code please.
yes, link the code. I'd be happy to help.
For both of them I did When green flag is pressed-forever-if key left arrow pressed? then-point in direction -90-move 10 steps. I did the same for the right but switched -90 to 90 and left arrow to right arrow
That sounds ok, but it would really help if we could see the code. If you're working on Scracth 2 (aka, web Scratch) then Share your project and put a link to the project. If you're working on Scratch 1.4, then you can upload the project (under the Share menu) and then copy *that* link. This will let others look at the entire project, including costumes, the sprite properties, and other non-code bits. Remember, a big part of programming is learning to find the subtle differences between your intention and what your code/project actually does. :) 
https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/55093616/#player does this work? It seems to glitch out the movement whenever the sprite flips direction.
Remixed your project to show the difference: https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/55153024/ 
Thank you so much! The movement is working now. There's just one other question I had, if you could help me. The game only seems to register that the sprite had been hit by a shuriken if it hits him from the front while he is facing the right. Any idea why this would happen? Is there something wrong with the hitbox? Thank you again!
It will also hit him when he is facing left and something touches him from behind 
Never mind! I figured it out! I didn't add each shuriken into the code, I just added the first one.
Congrats! That's a good catch! If you're using Scratch 1.4 (grey background) then that's the way you have to handle multiple projectiles. If you're using web Scratch, you could also decide to make the shuriken object CLONE itself, which would bring along all the collision detect code.
Could you possibly share the project? I'll have a go at remixing it to work through the issue.
In lieu of that, however, just try separating the if &lt;touching(Blue Tank)?&gt; hide broadcast[BLUE LOSS] and putting a When green flag clicked forever in front of it.
Try a "wait until touches &lt;wall color&gt;" between the forever loop and the if touching purple tank statement. 
Put a wait block (less than .1 seconds) after the change x by horzvelocity block at the end of the script. After the switch costume in the a and d if statements add: Repeat 5 Next costume Wait .05 You'll have to tweak the numbers to make it look like you want but that makes it do what (I think) you want. 
Good suggestion but it still didn't work.
Hmmm. What about an if else statement: If &lt;q key pressed&gt; Wait 1 second Else If &lt;touching purple tank&gt; Hide Broadcast...etc...
When I do this, the bullet just goes through the purple tank as if it isn't even there
It's a toughie. Could you share the project and send me a link to it please? It would be much easier than trying to replicate every aspect of your program to work on. So far I've got it working, but only if it bounces off the right-hand wall - still not sure why! Edit: This might work better for yours than it does for mine; forever if&lt;touching[colour(grey)] broadcast[EDGE] and then, separately, when I receive[EDGE] repeat until&lt;touching[Purple Tank]&gt; if on edge, bounce broadcast[PURPLE LOSS]
Alright, I've sent you an email! By the way, I really, really appreciate your help
I got your email late last night - sorry if it's an awkward time, but time zone differences are hard to work with! I've fixed it for you, but it was taxing because Scratch 1.4 lacks a clone function. I've emailed you the fixed file - there's a copy of the Purple Tank which is necessary for the function and I've changed a bit on the purple bullet sprite. 
Have a variable that goes from 0 to 1, if it's equal to one it will be able yo kill, the bullet will fire wil value 0, wait till it's not touching tank, wait again for 0.01 seconds to make sure, and then its value is 1
That helped so much thanks! 
Brutal game. Tried 3 times and could not get passed level 3. Nice game though!
Thanks! I tried to make it pretty hard. I've only beaten it once, just to ensure its possible honestly haha :D
Hi there! Can you give a bit more background about what you're trying to accomplish? Currently this project has two independent parts. The cars move across the screen and then warp back to their starting positions. The traffic lights cycle between costumes. Are you trying to establish a connection between those halves? EX, have the cars stay in place during a red light and then move when they have a green? 
That is correct. I want the two halves to connect and then if possible have them turn right. Im trying to make a traffic simulator(obviously) so that if they crash ill make a variable that records how many times they crash. I also have to make a timer to see how many time they crashed in what ever amount of time.
Use a variable for all sprites, 1 for green 2 for yellow 3 for red, and then use a `wait until &lt;phase == 1&gt;`?
Your project isn't shared yet, be sure to click the "Share" button on your project page so we can see the code!
The phase is a variable. The car waits until the phase changes to green, or 1. Ideally each traffic light will change their own phase variable. When you get complicated, and a lot of traffic lights, you can potentially make a list containing phases so the car increments the list index to refer to after every intersection. For a good simulation, you could probably do a `wait until ` AND a `wait random number of seconds` so you can simulate human reaction time. It seems like you should check out some more scratch tutorials though, they will probably inspire you. 
you need to put the [if touching] statement into a loop as it only does it (twice) and then that piece of code has stopped - wrap the if into a forever loop and it works - i just tried it
I appreciate the help s505. Thank you my fellow redditor
Visual Basic is possible but its under Mono so it isn't the .net framework but its not a big difference
[A script similar to this one should work.](http://i.imgur.com/7HvX5ZT.png) What it does is when the green flag is clicked/the program starts, it constantly checks if the sprite is touching the other sprite. If it is, it hides. You can change the "When green flag clicked" to whatever you want: maybe a "When I recieve ____" block. To show the sprite, use a show block.
Feel free to comment right on the project page. Ill check reddit and scratch tomorrow.
Add an if statement on the green light for the red car. Have it compare a random number to a constant number and broadcast the 'turn right' if they match. I added it to your project here : https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/58381288/
Dude you are awesome. Thank you so much. Any chance you live in Chicago I would totally buy some lunch. Lifesaver
Hi there! The problem was in your "If Touching Red1" block in the Projectile sprite. The "Change Ball speed", "turn" and "move" blocks were outside the IF (but still inside the Forever) so they ran all the time causing your ball to turn randomly. I've fixed it in this Remix: https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/60220736/. You can find a comment attached to the blocks I changed.
Ok, so I think the problem you're having is that there's some confusion as to how these operators work. That's natural, since translations from natural language to programming don't always work like you'd think. The problem you're having is that &lt;&lt;gsw or nop&gt; = 4&gt; doesn't check if either of the values is equal to 4 like you'd expect. You have to think of each block as a self-contained operation which only "tells" its result to the block its placed in, and nothing about the values it was given. In this case, the *or* block takes values that are either true or false and returns true if one or both of them are true, and false if both are false. It has a specific logical meaning separate from our usual spoken language semantics. Here's a truth table, if that makes it a little clearer. A | B | A or B ---|---|---- T | T | T T | F | T F | T | T F | F | F You're trying to give it a number, but numbers aren't true or false, so the *or* operator doesn't know what to do with them. Here's what your logic should look like instead: repeat until &lt;&lt;GSW = 4&gt; OR &lt;NOP = 4&gt;&gt; Here's how it would evaluate: First, the equals block checks if GSW = 4, and then the other one checks if NOP = 4. They both "tell" their values (true or false) to the or block, and it in turn operates on their values. If either of these conditions was true, it "tells" true to the *repeat until* block and the loop ends. Hope that helps! Sorry for writing such a long bit; I hope it's understandable.
I can't access the project to check but based on the described intent I think the best course of action would be Point to mouse Repeat until touching edge Move x steps End repeat Then have it do some sort of arc whether that is just if on edge bounce or some sort of formula.
Vector is mathematical. It means that you can select components of the image and move them around, and do cool shapes and stuff because of how the program handles it. It looks more smooth and generally is better to use, unless you want to conserve memory. Bitmap is just a 2D set of pixels, if that makes sense. The only way you can select components is through a tool you have to manually use. It doesn't recognize shapes, all it does it recognize the different pixels. It generally looks worse, but is more memory efficient. Bitmap is normally done better is programs other than scratch, but since scratch updated to have vector, bitmap has been left in the dust and it's super pixelated and the new editor makes it heaps hard to work with. It's best to get more fluent in using vector, if you want to create good artwork on scratch.
This makes a lot of sense now thank you edit: is it possible to crop sprites in vector? I tried using the banana bundle and cropping a single one but I could only figure out converting it to bitmap and erasing. 
My teacher did multiple exercises where each one would teach a specific aspect, or group of ideas on how to make things in scratch.
I teach Scratch to 4th graders. Start with just making a sprite move, turn, etc. The first full "game" I teach them is to make a maze game where the sprite moves with the arrow keys. That can take a week with all the "extras" you put in: keeping score, having a bad guy chase, etc. 
You should have something like this... A Control Block (eg. when sprite1 clicked) Hide (the hide block is under looks) If you want to make the sprite visible just change the hide block to the show block. ~ybotmallah2005 
hey Golmin3 &amp;nbsp; I have had a thorough look into the code, and like you can't seem to solve the bugs. However for the level 2 stair bug I think you should increase the probability of the stairs. The game concept and ideas is awesome. Great job so far! &amp;nbsp; ~ybotmallah2005
There are two issues that come to mind here: 1) You have a forever inside a forever - this means that once you get inside your walking block, you never escape that forever loop! Thus the move with Right arrow key will only work once. I think you want to remove the forever from within the defined block. 2) Your costume changes are one right after another without any pause or delay. If there is no wait, the costume changes happen so fast that you cannot see any changes. Try inserting a brief wait in between the costume changes (wait .05 seconds, or something like that). 
That example was extremely helpful! I can't thank you enough. My animation looks great now that I've changed the way the sprite switches costumes. Thank you very much.
could make a script that gets a number and conversts it to a display like a calculator screen idk
Wow, that is super, Super, SUPER amazing! Exactly what I was looking for, thank you so much. I would actually like to teach my students (grade/years 4-6) how to make this but looking at your code, I'm unsure of most of the concepts you've actually used. I'm going to need to get my thinking cap on! Much appreciated :-)
I suggest you ignore any equations doing with size, those were all there just so you can resize the sprite and not have to mess with everything else.
I could only find two wands...
wow
Awesome!
It's harder than it looks. How about you use your programming language and we'll use ours, alright?
Scratch isn't a replacement for C++. It's another language, one that's specifically designed as a gateway to more complex languages. So, yes, learn C++. But learn Scratch as well. Learn Python and PHP. Hell, learn COBOL and FORTRAN if you want. 
xD "scratch is a programming language"
it's not a language, it's a toy for little children to use so they feel smart. 
By definition, you can't argue that Scratch isn't a programming language. It is indeed designed for kids, as a way of introducing them to programming so they could be a bit more familiar with the whole deal if or when they move on to higher level languages such as C++. I'm curious as to your thoughts on why C++ is a "better" language exactly. I believe Scratch serves its purpose better than C++ could, although Scratch doesn't quite serve the purpose of C++
This is extremely intriguing. How did you do it?
Based on a comment in the (now unshared) project, he wrote a Ruby server to do this. The project just creates a request string and stores it in a cloud variable, then reads from another cloud variable which encodes an image and renders it. Presumably the server uses a Ruby library to request a webpage and process it as an image, then encodes it and sends the response string. Not sure how he was able to read/write cloud data but as we've seen before, there are quite a lot of exploits that can be done with pretty simple HTTP requests in Scratch.
1)No, that's a shít excuse. There's no such programming language which is so small scale that nothing on steam can be made with it. 2)Because you're technically giving instructions to a computer (Not even written, dípshít.), it's a programming language? Javascript is not a programming language. Python is not a programming language. Scratch is not even a scriping language; as I keep saying; it's a TOY. 3)"Clearly not a genius" because I'm not a 12 year old playing with scratch thinking he's a programmer because he can drag and drop extremely limited instructions. 4)Yeah, sure you've moved on. That's why you're not fúcking with people on this subreddit and instead posting on it.
Scratch is a **learning tool** you dipshit. It's an introductory programming language using more intuitive tools in order to give teach people what programming is like. Why would any child want to learn C++? Don't you realize there are several programming languages that are far more appropriate to the kind of programming a person would be interested in. [Here's a list of several programming languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_programming_languages) (By the way, scratch is one of them). C++ is a basic language, that's of a lower abstraction than Scratch is intended for and similar to. It's more appropriate for structured databases, not interactive audio-visual animation. What children should *actually* be learning is something more appropriate to their interests, such as Java or [squeak](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squeak), the language mainly used in creating the scratch program; or a general purpose language with a higher abstraction such as python. Either way, that doesn't stop scratch from being a useful tool to introduce animation and programming to a child. If you don't really understand the importance of that, here's a [ted talk](http://www.ted.com/talks/mitch_resnick_let_s_teach_kids_to_code?language=en) by Mitchel Resnick, one of the developers of Scratch. Perhaps he'll be able to describe what scratch is good for to you. Still don't like it? Go make a better programming language for children.
&gt; 1)No, that's a shít excuse. There's no such programming language which is so small scale that nothing on steam can be made with it. Actually there is a such thing and it's called Scratch. Steam isn't the end-all be-all that defines whether something is large-scale or not so if you're using it as an example, it's a bad one. If you're using it as an actual measurement, you're clearly trolling. &gt; 2)Because you're technically giving instructions to a computer (Not even written, dípshít.), it's a programming language? Javascript is not a programming language. Python is not a programming language. Scratch is not even a scriping language; as I keep saying; it's a TOY. Who care's if it's written? You're putting together code which gives instructions to a computer one way or another. Also, out of curiosity, if I made a game in Python and got it on Steam somehow, would you then consider Python a programming language? And do you consider Stencyl to be a programming language? Why/why not? &gt; 3)"Clearly not a genius" because I'm not a 12 year old playing with scratch thinking he's a programmer because he can drag and drop extremely limited instructions. Why are you so angry about this? lol I'm not a 12 year old playing on Reddit arguing about a programming language in it's community that I visited specifically to hate on. &gt; 4)Yeah, sure you've moved on. That's why you're not fúcking with people on this subreddit and instead posting on it. I'm not "fúcking" with anyone. I was quite enjoying this debate actually; I find it interesting. And I'm not posting on it, yep. Because I no longer use Scratch. I'm still subscribed to this subreddit though because I like to see things people post on it, and this post in particular piqued my interest because it was so passive-aggressively hateful.
Scratch is for kids to have fun and play games with each other. Not to make full-scale games to sell on Steam. Just because you feel like every thing every kid makes should be for sale on Steam, doesn't mean Scratch has no purpose. (And yes, I know C#. I Scratch for fun).
This game is the story of a brave little cat, who was destined to be the most euphoric of all feline-kind. This cat's village was being ravaged by the Illuminati. Then Scratch reks the Illuminati and resets the universe. The end.
I love when i'm not sure which sub a post comes from. Stay euphoric m8
try making it go if [touching[wall] then change x by [number] change y by [number] ] sorry if its to hard to understand i've been a scratcher for a year and am a very advanced scratcher
Pretty simple game, I liked the animated sprite and the separate foreground/background - although I'm not sure it moves quite right. Nice idea though. I'd use the different angles of the owl to indicate which direction you're flying in, rather than where on the screen you are. Looks weird seeing the owl flapping to the side but staying in one place. It was a bit frustrating going so slowly, maybe you could speed up as the game goes on, and more books fall or more quickly.
I made a remix with slightly better perfomance. https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/69981794/
Mark my words: Flash is Scratche's death.
Thanks! If you check out my other projects on Scratch, you'll see that all (except two) were made with hand-drawn graphics. I think I started using hand-drawn graphics because I was inspired by this project: [Neo](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/63376/). I was kind of a perfectionist when I was younger and I was obsessed with the idea that ALL my projects had to be done that way, and that every sprite in said projects should be hand-drawn. I can't remember when I made it exactly: either the summer between 5th and 6th grade or the summer between 6th and 7th grade. On a different vein, I was relieved when I saw your comment and then checked out my project. Yesterday it wasn't working: the cone wouldn't catch any ice cream. The project had broken once before, when the cone wouldn't move, and I had to trick it into working again, even though the code had worked before. I thought I'd have to trick it again for this new glitch, and I looked at the code, but I couldn't find a way - the code, which should've been correct, was just blatantly not working in front of my face. I couldn't trick it into working again. But now that I checked it today, it fixed itself. Yay!
I think /u/TheyCallMeTraderMan wants to know how to view the code for a Scratch project as if it were written in a text-based programming language.
That happened to me once. It may be because your browser is zoomed in.
Thanks for the in the Depth :) I started having my own suspicions that it wouldn't be easy to view, but I'm a big glad to learn just how Scratch works. Thanks for the help :D
No problem. I'm far from an expert but I'm willing to answer questions. :) I did make one mistake of note: Scratch is written in Actionscript, not Javascript. I've been working with a Javascript project lately so my mind was still in that mode, I guess.
This seems interesting. You might want to hide a white dot sprite that shows during startup. Also, on the second screen of the first world/level, I got stuck an an infinite jump loop between that second platform and the sky. Good work, though.
thanks for the feedback! I will try to fix as soon as possible &lt;3
Great work. Just needs a little debugging and tweeking.
3D engines never cease to amaze me in Scratch.
Yeah, the issue is mainly from adding the Scrolling effect in; but I might look into setting up the hit markers all around the character. 
You could add a custom one that you then activate with something like spacebar or any key you won't need
https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/72239664/#editor Its a very simple program for now. But since i cant get this to work i cannot proceed. I want my r key to rest and my space bar (for now) change skin.
In order for us to help you, we need to be able to see your scripts. Your project is not shared at the moment which means that we can't access any part of it. You could either share the project or screenshot your script.
It goes above 1. 
Well, feel free to add suggestions, just wanted to get more use to the pen while creating some neat designs. . What other objects would be interesting to implement? 
Does it keep increasing forever? If it does, I don't know why that would be happening... For one reason or another, I would suspect your if statement just isn't being executed. Otherwise, for instance if it goes above one for a very short period of time and then jumps back to one, only to repeat that process, the problem may be a little bit more involved. I might guess that because you're setting the y value, and THEN checking to see if it's greater than one, there is necessarily a small amount of time during which the y value is above one, before the check is performed. The question then is why this wouldn't be happening for the second bit of logic you gave us, where y is not allowed to drop below -0.5 If you'd like, you can post a link to your project to that I and others here can look for the problem directly.
I'm happy to help. Typically you use if touching sprite inside your main loop. so if you wanted the ship to detect the landing station: If "touching station" then switch to back drop "you win"
You have custom subreddit styles disabled. It needs to be on in order for custom sprites to appear.
I'm pretty sure I didn't, because I only disable it for specific subs with really bad css. But it seems to have fixed itself now anyway
You might have a stray pixel on your lander that's overlapping the grey area - possibly a very light coloured one that's hard to spot.
Did some digging in the files, what's with the allahu akbar sound effect? XD
I have fixed the problem, turns out my browser was zoomed out to 90% instead of 100%.
I think you want to use [Forever [If &lt; &gt;]]
First of all, you can improve movement by, instead of using (When [] key pressed) you can substitute it using: (When /^**=** clicked) [Forever] [If &lt;key [] pressed?&gt; Also, you have a problem with gun shots registering as a shot on an enemy and killing them. I'm pretty sure this is because it goes through the entire set of movement instructions before checking whether it's touching the bullet, and then almost immediately goes back to doing the long set of instructions. To fix this, I suggest you create a separate script from the movement script where it detects whether it has touched the bullet, and then it will kill itself. That way, it doesn't have an incredibly small window of opportunity for it to die. One other glitch I ran into was tree collision. If you make the character go to the very bottom, and as far right as you can, then move up a bit, and try to go left, you will glide to the right. This is because of the way you've coded the collision, where you will move 5 units the opposite direction when you're colliding. To fix this, you can simply create 1 script for touching trees on the right hand side of the screen, and make it so it will teleport to x:130, then a second script for touching trees on the left hand side of the screen, and make it so it will teleport to x:-155. I hope this has helped, if you have any questions feel free to ask.
That's great - it works fine, but the lack of any keyboard input will limit what you can do with it.
Thanks, just trying to help the community as much as i can :]
That is one of the major issues for me as well :(
That's pretty cool :)
That is suuper buggy. But you've got the basic mechanics working, so it just needs polishing up. How old are you? EDIT: I've eliminated the major bugs by rearranging a couple of things in the ball's script. See [here](http://i.imgur.com/bJ5i00X.png). I can explain why it helps, if you like.
I KNOW!!!! its my first game and im new. I am 10. Did you make a remix?
Pretty sure Scratch doesn't allow this feature for safety concerns.
Ill check the remix and change what i need!
Use the "go to SPACESHIP" and the "point in the direction (DIRECTION of SPACESHIP)". The 'Direction of ...' command is under Sensing, change 'x position of ...' to 'direction of ...'
That is awesome fun, and awesomely constructed in a lot of ways I'm extremely jealous of having tried to make my own space game that is in dire need of a lot of techniques you've used here which I will be stealing outright.
This sounds really cool!! You might want to post on /r/programming 
hmm... Yeah someone else was thinking that, is there a solution?
Okay, I'll give it a shot. Thanks
Thankfully, I have solved the problem. A kind soul on the Scratch forums helped point out that clone limits existed, and after messing with the code, it's successfully working now. 
The backgrounds are no longer transparent, but now, it's not an animated gif anymore. All of the frames are gone
I didn't think it mattered. What programs support animated gifs?
anybody? 
Just posted a fifth tutorial on how to make a maze game in Scratch: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IucWT624e4s
Just posted a RATEME.scratch episode!: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U69SmwTrATM
[Here's an album to help you.](http://imgur.com/a/vvkZi)
Thanks a bunch any help on square rooting the numbers without getting anything that will end up with decimals?
I'm not sure what you mean by that. If you want (for example) the number 3.26953 displayed as 3, you can use the block "round [...]" for that.
No I want the numbers asked, to be randomised to say the square root of 64 or 4 or 9, and not something like 3 which will end up giving a decimal and headache.There is the solution of picking several set numbers, but it makes the entire program more linear, which isn't the idea I have for it.
Well, you could make a script like "if number = 1.414 then set number to "square root of 2", else if number = 1.732 then set number to "square root of 3", else if..." etc. Granted, that's always going to cover a finite number of square roots, but with a bit of time put into it it'll cover a decent amount at least. I can't figure out a different way to do this in scratch right now though.
I managed to get it working another way yesterday.Anyhow thanks.
Hey, everyone, opened up a new section of my YouTube channel where I review Scratch collaborations. It’s called RATEUS.scratch (Not at all copying off of my series RATEME.scratch…). I would greatly appreciate it if you could check it out: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IZbXxpood6g Thanks! -The Scratchsteer-
Nice use of the username variable!
Thank you!
[Not what I was expecting!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1wnE4vF9CQ4)
[No.] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=umDr0mPuyQc&amp;ab_channel=RetroPep)
Best I've managed is 101, but very impressive project! 
Since Scratch 2.0, there's a tab for custom blocks. Check which version you downloaded, if it's the 1.4 it won't help you with the assignment. You can find the latest version on www.scratch.mit.edu
This! If you have Scratch 2.0, custom blocks should be in the "More blocks" tab.
That's cool! Can you tell us a bit more about it? 
I don't understand, what is this project actually doing? I see some pick random blocks, is that it?
Hm. Does the scratch team allow hosting cloud var servers? 
I can do what I want on my local machine. I don't see why they would have any issues with it.
Thank you so much! This was a huge help!
no, it has a cloud purifier, which makes the numbers more random than random.
Yes it is a sprite and the sprite has to broadcast the message "change colors" to the squares. I have that done but the squares do not change colors even though they have the "when i recieve change colors, change pen color" command. 
I press start and the 10 squares appear in different colors (perfect) I press the color change button and nothing at all happens.
Here you go:http://imgur.com/a/b0oz9
See, the rectangles only get drawn at the very beginning. They need to be redrawn when Sprite1 recieves ChangeColors, so just copy the script from "when green flag clicked" into "when I recieve 'ChangeColors'".
But worldwide, the randomness will be more consistent, such that if a set was made that was averaged at 6, then the likelihood of a set averaging 4 is high. Making this better.
in the sprite that has the gif: when flag clicked forever{ if touching edge show forever{ next costume } else hide }
well if you share it I'll be happy to look at the code
I can have the gif pop up just fine its just that I can still move while its playing. Is there a way to fix this?
AFAIK this isn't possible (but it would have come in handy lots of times for me). There is of course a workaround, e.g. "if &lt;Var = player1&gt; then [add 10 to player1] else if &lt;Var = player2&gt; then [add 10 to player2] else if..." but this only covers a finite amount of possibilities.
Wow, good job. I'm always fascinated with list im-/exports, but this is a totally different level than a save state system.
Thanks! I plan to make a PNM image viewer using a similar method.
I don't see a gif in that project...
Well this is a bit embarrassing but I linked the wrong project... Here is the right one https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/78765868/#player
I made some minor changes: https://i.pantsu.cat/msgjao.sb2
Thats strange when I followed the link to the project page it was not the same platformer project I originally saw. Did you change it?
It actually only plays once. If you look at the nope2 sprite costumes, there are two loops worth of costumes. If you delete all the costumes 13-24 then it should be fine.
Could we see the code?
Sorry for the late response, but while you can't directly launch a website using scratch, you can have a list pop up with just the adress inside. Users can copy the content from lists.
My guess is it works with the "event" block "when background switches to _____". Pausing the code line in the stage until that event has done all it's work. similar to broadcast and wait. 
Yup! This is it. Here's the relevant bits in the code, for the curious: **https://github.com/LLK/scratch-flash/blob/master/src/primitives/LooksPrims.as#L52-L53** &gt;Here we're defining our "primitives" for the looks tab - the blocks you'll actually use in the editor! Each entry has a name that you can use to look it up, and a function that's called to execute the block. Here, the one's we're interested in are 'startScene' and 'startSceneAndWait', which are mapped to the backdrop blocks. &gt;Notice that they both point to the same function, but slightly different - startScene passes 'false' as an argument, but startSceneAndWait passes 'true'. To figure out what this actually does, let's check out the startScene() function further down. **https://github.com/LLK/scratch-flash/blob/master/src/primitives/LooksPrims.as#L134** &gt; Now we can see the difference made between these two calls. The second argument that startScene() takes is a boolean called 'waitFlag' - which probably does what it sounds like it does! Most of this function isn't actually that interesting - it's just figuring out what backdrop in the project you're actually asking for it. The only place waitFlag is used here is when we call interp.startScene(), so it looks like we'll have to go deeper to figure out what's going on. &gt;To do this, we're going to jump into a function called by the Interpreter - which does the real hard work of executing your blocks once the helpers in the Primitives figure out what data to give to it. **https://github.com/LLK/scratch-flash/blob/master/src/interpreter/Interpreter.as#L614** &gt;Now we're getting somewhere! Check it out - if waitFlag is **false**, we call 'return' - which exits the function right now. This is what happens if we use the regular "Switch backdrop" block. We exit the function, and can execute the next block in your script. However, if it's true (we used "Switch backdrop and wait") we keep going. For every hat block matching "when background switches to ____", we've created a thread that runs the code attached to it. Starting in [line 618](https://github.com/LLK/scratch-flash/blob/master/src/interpreter/Interpreter.as#L618-L625), we loop over all the threads we created and check if we can continue or have to keep waiting. Once we're 'done', we can stop waiting for the other hat blocks and move on to the next block. That ended up being uh, a bit longer than expected. I was actually curious how this worked myself, so this explanation wasn't too different from my own investigative process. I guess I got into it a bit. Sorry if that ended up being an unreadable wall!
I didn't know this was still a thing! But thanks anyway!
I feel like I could help, what is your problem?
You could save the y-positions into a list and have a sprite draw a line connecting the list items, but this is slow of you're not using turbo mode. Alternatively, you can just have the sprite draw from its current position to the next with every update and when it hits the edge on the one side have it move to the other and clear the screen. 
You can't really do a very high resolution because even on turbo mode Scratch it too slow to redraw the graph fast enough. Check out this project, which makes a scrolling graph from microphone loudness. https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/2614763/
I think that the "and wait" block waits till the change is done. It's not useful or important, and I think that you should use the top block.
Jeez, I hated that game.
Looks pretty good! But for freehand, you should probably put pen down first
Yes I am talking about a wall that moves when the player does. Like in Mario. Sorry for not being clear.
That should be fairly simple, since you already created a scrolling variable (good job!). You could basically just copy the "floor" sprite and change it so it only creates a set amount of clones. Give each one a personal variable (e.g. "x-offset") and make it go to scrollx + x-offset. Hope that helps!
Thanks I was able to make a moving block but I still have one small problem. When it gets to the edge of the screen it stays there. How can I make it go away after I go past the edge?
Better to ask questions than to stay confused! I was referring to the personal variable that would be responsible for the offset of each clone, which you can name what you want. 
I work for them. The Scratch projects are really so we have some live examples and don't have to point at other peoples projects when it's really a commercial use for us. The bonfire projects came about as they wanted some electronics projects for bonfire night but I thought coding was safer than explosive/detonator based (and potentially dangerous) projects.
This would have come in handy for my biology class 3 years ago...
Not sure how you've reached that conclusion. They're using Windows PCs with standard sized monitors, and Scratch is maximised.
Have you tried reporting to the developers on the forums?
Your welcome!
Hopefully they can help!
Oh sorry I forgot to submit it! I will edit it right now! Here it is: http://imgur.com/D5DBKLc
Ok. What's not working as you expect?
I assume you mean when you click the button? Think about what you're comparing your input to - where are Word and Definition set? You need to make sure that you're checking against the right values and that you're actually pulling from the lists you've generated.
It sometimes takes a while for something to pop up, especially with a slow connection or a big file. 
Thanx I'll try it again. 
Nice menu system, and it's pretty cool having multiple games in one project. They seem to work as expected, so well done. There are a couple of minor bugs I ran into, like pressing space during a game, but nothing that messes with gameplay. The platformer is pretty unforgiving, might be nice if it restarted the current level rather than going back to the beginning. Depends how hard you want it to be. I can't seem to play Snake though. Typing 'snake' or 'Snake' both do nothing. Looking at the code it looks like you forgot to check for that answer. Also the reaction game isn't documented in the intro or project description, I only noticed it by looking at the code. Good job though. How old are you? This is amazing for an elementary school project, good for high school or older beginner.
Not sure who downvoted this, it's a very good collection of games! The menu is a little buggy and could be redone but I'm impressed with the multiple-game-system.
Don't actually tell us your age, /u/NonExistent23. It's personal information and I strongly advise against posting that publicly.
I appreciate your intent, and OP is free to decline of course, but I'm pretty sure the personal information clause of reddiquette is warning not to post someone *else's* personal information. &gt;**Please don't:** **Post someone's personal information,** or post links to personal information. This includes links to public Facebook pages and screenshots of Facebook pages with the names still legible. We all get outraged by the ignorant things people say and do online, but witch hunts and vigilantism hurt innocent people too often, and such posts or comments will be removed. Users posting personal info are subject to an immediate account deletion. If you see a user posting personal info, please contact the admins. Additionally, on pages such as Facebook, where personal information is often displayed, please mask the personal information and personal photographs using a blur function, erase function, or simply block it out with color. When personal information is relevant to the post (i.e. comment wars) please use color blocking for the personal information to indicate whose comment is whose. It goes to great lengths to explain what it means. Things that will allow them to be identified and potentially contacted/harassed/witch hunted outside of reddit, like their full name, address, links to other accounts, etc. Asking OPs age in this context doesn't seem anti-reddiquette.
You're right, it's not a direct violation of reddiquette, but the /r/Scratch mod team would rather not have anyone post personal information. We haven't clarified anything in the rules as of yet, but then again it's never been an issue.
Oh, I didn't realise you were a mod. I understand your concern, especially with the increased likelihood of kids being involved in this subreddit, but I do think knowing the age of submitters like this helps in giving feedback and, in isolation, poses no danger to the submitter. I don't see the harm in revealing your age. Being vigilant against unnecessary or more detailed personal information would certainly be a good thing.
The two websites that I used a lot are [The Spriter's Resource](http://spriters-resource.com) and [Mario Fan Games Galaxy](http://mfgg.net). You'll have to cut out the sprites yourself but it's a good place to start. 
That's what I meant by saying that you had to cut out the sprites yourself. For example: Use an image editor to crop the sprite sheet to a maximum resolution of 480x360 and import it to Scratch, then use its editor to cut out each individual sprite into a different costume. 
There are loads of good copyright-free images here: https://openclipart.org And they're mainly SVG files, so you can resize them as much as you like without losing quality.
It does.
Would have taken effort if anyone requested anything, so far the requests were pretty easy to fulfill. 
Yeah that's what I was gonna do. 
Kinda boring - and what does milk do? What's the point of buying cows?
http://cs-first.com from Google is a great place for beginner projects as well! 
Thanks
So you want to make a "doodle jump" type game except you have to be constantly moving, have I understood you correctly? 
Yeah. That would fulfill the requirements but I think i found a way to make a doodle jump like game just its with a lot less action and not as good as I originally pictured. But if you have any ideas on how make this please share them because I am all ears.
Looks great! Just tweeted your Kickstarter. As a teacher, I say good luck and thank you for making tools like these for our students to learn with!
Thank you so much for your kind words. I am providing link to our Youtube playlist and you will see short demo video's of Phiro working with 1) Pocket Code mobile app's 2) Scratch 3) Snap4Arduino 4) Swish Cards 5) Fun with Lego(r) compatibility https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCF8eCeNdv-umX2b0ZUMoSKw/playlists Do hope you find these interesting. We will be adding many more such videos to our Play Lists in the coming weeks. Please do let us have your feedback and thanks once again #Phirosquad
It's because of [this](http://i.imgur.com/uq8Hz6r.jpg) script that stops all other scripts in the sprite and teleports you -80y for not constantly touching the colour brown. Also your gravity and jumping is very jumpy, which is because you use such large changes of y at a time. I recommend you scrap the scripts in that sprite except for the movement with left and right, and then make something like [this](http://i.imgur.com/L7RLku5.jpg). Hope I could help, if you need anything else don't hesitate to ask.
There's a limit on how many clones can be created: 300. If you use a "repeat (250) times" block instead of the "forever", you'll be able to use up to 50 additional clones. Don't worry about the fact that this means you can't go on forever - that is the case either way with this script. 
Not completely sure how your game works, but you should be able to incorporate using stamps/pen instead of clones. That will probably make the game a ton faster as well. Check the infinite scrolling section [here](http://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/Scrolling_\(sprites\)) on the wiki.
I have no idea what your game is, so I can't really help you.
I'm a secondary school teacher who teaches scratch to ks3 so I might be perfect to review it if you would like
i have
What I meant is a variable That lists the Username of all of the people who have clicked it. 
its gonna get big
There's some great example projects of username lists being saved in cloud variables - it's quite complicated but you could look them up and see if you want to implement the concept. 
So great, by far the best pacing in a scratch game I've found yet
Here's a direct quotes from the ST regarding your project-flagging suggestion: One from the actual FNAF thread: **Why not implement an age appropriateness rating system on Scratch?** Everything shared in our community should be appropriate for all ages. Any type of age restriction placed on a project by the Scratch Team, community members, or project authors isn’t aligned with this philosophy. One from the denied suggestions thread: **A 13+ version of the website**: Scratch is designed for all ages, and dividing the community would not really help anybody. Also a common misconception is that **fnaf is not banned**, it is merely going to be more strictly reviewed and stuff that is too scary will therefore be removed. FNAF will not be inherently banned, projects that don't have popups/disturbing images/"scary backstory" will not be removed at all (although probably marked as NFE because it is now an incredibly sensitive topic).
Fnaf is not banned on Scratch. All projects intending to scare viewers are banned from Scratch, whether they are fnaf-related or not. This is an important distinction.
Have you tried the actual blocks? 
useless... I can make 3D with SHADING in Scratch EASY...
Ye
good.
Atleast parody games that dont have the purpose to scare you but to get a laugh or two out of you are still allowed.
This [one](http://www.picocricket.com/picoboard.html)
We still need to go even deeper. Flash was made in C++. That makes it a programming language made in a programming language made in a programming language made in a programming language.
When you join, you are asked your age, if you are 13+, then you can, if not, then you can't, it is so simple.
Not possible, sorry. There is no way to create a hyperlink in Scratch, but of course you can place them in the description. 
As long as the link is safe for everyone and related to the project, I'm sure you'll be fine. 
Thank you! I wish they had the option though :(
You can use a list to display a link which will make it copy/pastable.
Nope, the only way to make something copy/pastable is with a list atm.
ScratchExt is a Plugin for Scratch that can be automatically installed with [this chrome extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/scratchext/peilkhpoaiamhgcnagmklekjgmbjjjko?hl=en). Their homepage is [here](http://grannycookies.weebly.com/scratchext.html). :) There are blocks included that can send users directly to urls if they accept a dialogue box. The only problem is that the USERS would need to have the plugin installed. Just give them a link to the chrome extension in the project notes.
i mean is there a way to make it die or display game over when it touches itself no matter what colour it is
OH forgot,made by killerdragon1!!
[removed]
If you make the head of the snake a separate sprite to the segments, you can use If Touching (sprite) and the color won't matter.
Scratch is built to be very good at certain things (collision, motion), and so unfortunately once you step out of the bounds of these things the complexity increases very quickly. If you're interested in a project using the same ideas but less complexity, you might want to see if you can code Tic-Tac-Toe or Connect Four. Or seeing if you can use Scratch to set up a Rubik's Cube.
That's a good idea thanks I'll try to make connect four
I have some simple games on my profile, scratch.mit.edu/BLORSMILE
I don't see why why children of that age would need one. Tell them the basics, offer to answer any questions, and give them a challenge.
What, precisely, is your problem?
Have you changed your password? And idk
Change your password if you haven't done so already. Then get in touch with the Scratch team, on reddit you could contact /u/Harakou or on scratch anyone who has an asterisk (\*) behind their name (e.g. @speakvisually*). They may be able to help you. 
i posted on the discuss page
You placed the scratch main site, i don't think you intended that.
Oh, Whoops
This is pretty good, in order to make it a 12-hour clock instead of 24-hour, you could make it do this: if current hour &gt; 12 set Hour to (current hour - 12) set AM/PM to PM (Hour and AM/PM are variables. Current hour can be found in Sensing.) However this would mean as soon as it turns PM, it stays PM. You could do this to fix it. if current hour &lt; 13 set Hour to current hour set AM/PM to AM (Hour and AM/PM are variables. Current hour can be found in Sensing.) Sort of like [this](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/90549770/) project I made a while ago. (You can check the scripts if you need to)
Nice work, but there's 1 major issue with the project: If you run and choose one of the boosts before the "Boost Description Text" shows up, it'll never leave the screen and will obscure every level making them nearly unplayable. Fix it!! This looks awesome otherwise!!
Thanks! I fixed the issue made a double sided solution for it meaning it will hide 3 seconds after even if it didn't receive the broadcast.
Thanks for letting me know :D
That sounds awesome. I hope you succeed on your goals man :D btw the way your game looks is awesome very creative.
I've noticed that you've used cloning. I only pop into scratch every now and then so I'm not familiar with cloning - I may have missed what the problem is due to this, so forgive me. I think what your problem is lies in the fact that detecting getting hit and moving are in the same script. The way your script works is that it will detect you moving in the 'if' statement, and keep repeating the same 'if' statement without checking to see if you've collided with the ammo sprite. I'm pretty tired and not the best at explaining right now, so I dunno if you're understanding what I've said. Try moving the collision detection with the bullets into a separate script and seeing if that fixes the problem. If you have any questions please ask.
put in a wait zero before you delete the bullet clones
Ok. I solved the issue. I ended up just creating two separate sprites; it makes it less complicated.
You should make a variable, and whenever the key is pressed, the variable goes up by one. If the variable is higher than the amount of cars, it resets back to one. Then each sprite can detect if the variable is a certain amount, and if so, it can be controlled.
I really enjoyed it.
What is your question? I doubt anyone here will write the code for you or give you any kind of answers unless you're more specific with what your question is. It looks like they want you to populate the colour list randomly and change the length by 1 every turn. If you want more info, you need to be more specific.
Woah! Those are awesome. How long have you been using Scratch? Would you be available to help answer questions for students online at all?
Absolutely, that's part of why I help moderate this subreddit! And I've been using Scratch for over 5 years. 
Awesome! I'll send you a PM when our program starts up. We have a Slack channel setup where students can get help while they're learning how to use Scratch. It would be awesome to get some help from someone like you! :)
1. 16 2. If you give me time and any project I could probably figure it out. 3. Yes! I know a bit of Python and I've been working with Stencyl recently. 4. Actually my school was using Scratch back in 2008 and I got into it.
Is the channel public? 
1. 14 2. Medium-High I think 3. A little bit of python 4. A summer class about coding.
1. 38 2. Intermediate level, I guess. Using it for CoderDojo projects. 3. Yes. C, Python, Haskell, Java, Rust (basic), C++, Bash, ... to name a few 4. CoderDojo coaching.
Alright, sounds good. I'm also working on explaining the full script of Lunar Lander, which might be interesting for your students to take a look at.
Not currently. Our main focus is on helping the students that are signed up for our event but we may consider opening it up further in the future.
Hi! If you want more demographic information, you can check out our [statistics page.](https://scratch.mit.edu/statistics/) It's not super detailed, but it could give you a good idea what the age distribution on the site looks like, since Reddit is going to have a significant bias when asking about age. As for me: 1. 20 2. Fairly experienced, though I haven't actively used Scratch for programming in several years so there are definitely people that understand its quirks far better than me. 3. I'm a CS student so yes - C, Java, Python, JS, Racket mainly. 4. A friend in my freshman year of high school showed it to me, actually. I thought it was silly and preferred to stick to BASIC. I'm glad I changed my mind. :)
Hey Dixiklo9000 this project is really good - I enjoyed the simplistic of playing too. 
Certainly the best emulator so far..
What I've seen in the past for teaching scratch (1st lesson) is to get the students to make a graphic (aka the player sprite) walk left / right on the screen whilst facing the correct way when walking. Once this is achieved, have them animate the walking, followed by the walking controlled by a left or right keypress. Hope this helps. 
Bumping this thread, would also like to know this.
Okay so I read the wiki link you send, and you need to know first of all that the system it describes only has two player slots. This means that you can **only** have two players playing at a time. If you don't expect your game to become big, and are only planning on playing with your friends, this is not gonna be a problem, but if a lot of players are trying to play at the same time, it will not work. So that being said, I'm gonna describe how it works. The whole system works on cloud variables, you probably already know about those, but I'm going to explain them anyway in case you don't. Cloud variables are different from normal variables in that they are shared between everyone, and that they can only contain numbers. Their system can be described as having two parts, one responsible for connecting to the game, and another for sending game information - in their example they are only sending sprite coordinates. So to make a multiplayer game work you're going to need to know whether or not a player is connected. The obvious solution to this would seem to just have a cloud variable storing whether or not you are connected, however you would soon run in to problems if a player is going to close the game by just exiting, or losing their internet connection. Then they wouldn't be able to set the cloud variable to "not connected" and everyone would think they were connected! To solve this what we do instead is have a cloud variable that we are constantly changing. This way if a player gets disconnected they won't be able to change the variable any more, and it will be clear that they aren't connected anymore. So when we are initially attempting to join the game, we are going to need to check whether or not someone else have already taken the role of player 1 or player 2. If both are taken we won't be able to connect. If only one is taken, we are going to take the other one, and if none are taken we are going to take player 1. To check whether or not someone else is connected, we are going to need to check whether or not their variable is changing. So to do this we need to check the variables, wait a little, and check if they're the same. To do this we first store player 1 and player 2's variables in a variable that **isn't** a cloud variable, this is because we only need them for our own personal check, we don't want others to see or be able to change these values. Then a few seconds later we compare the values we stored before to those in the cloud variables. If they are the same the cloud variables didn't change and we can take the role of that player, if they did change that mean someone else is already playing, and we should stay away to avoid interfering with them. When we find out we are able to connect as either player, we start a script that changes the cloud variable for that player role, to signal that that role is now taken. When we are connected we are now going to have to send our coordinates to the other players, so that they are going to know where we are. The coordinates script is unnecessarily complex because they decided that having a cloud variable for both x and y was too many, so they decided to put it in the same variable. To do this they add 500 to both the x and y coordinate. Now the coordinates are always gonna be positive. We then join the x and y coordinates together and put them in a cloud variable. We also need to be aware of the other player's coordinates and move a sprite to those coordinates on our side, so we can see where they are. To do this we look at the other player's coordinate variable. The first three digits are the x coordinate, and the last three the y coordinate. So we for the x coordinate we join the first digit together with the second and third digit. We then subtract the 500 that was added on the other side. We do the same with the y coordinate, except for the fourth, fifth and sixth digit. I think that was pretty much it. If my rambling was too confusing, if I forgot to mention anything or there was something I didn't explain well enough, then feel free to ask questions :) Also I wrote this from my iPad, so I apologize for any mistakes that I or autocorrect might've made
This helped a lot, thank you so much! I feel like I have at least a basic understanding of the lines of code, which is infinitely more than I had before I read this. Thank you so much, and I'll reply here again if I have any questions later :D One question though, how would I edit this to allow more than 2?
To add a third player you would have to add the variables we have for player 1 and 2 for a player 3 as well. When checking for whether other players are connected, you'd have to do it a little different. I'd do it by first checking whether someone is connected as player 1 if not, take that role, if someone is connected then do the same check for player 2, then move on to player 3. This principle can be used to add a player 4, player 5 and so on as well. However you'll have to program for every player for the amount of players you want. To make it so you could have as many players as you want, you'd have to use lists instead of variables. Where the first item in the list would be the value for player 1, the second would be the value for player 2, and so on. Scratch doesn't really support cloud lists, but other people have found a way to encode lists in to cloud variables, so it is possible to do, but I'm not exactly sure how that works. You could just take someone else's cloud list script and use that, (of course giving credit) I've done that before, but if you want to understand 100% how your scripts work, this isn't the best approach. If you want more players you could also just copy the same sprite a bunch of times to make one for each player, but if you plan on having many connected, that's going to take a lot of time to do, so I'd use scratch's ability to clone sprites instead. To do this you'd have to make a variable on the clone storing information of which player it is, and then move the clone to that player's coordinates. You'd also need to check whether each player is active, and if someone is inactive, then delete the clone for them. 
Thank you again, this has been extremely helpful! It would be nice to see scratch support cloud lists in the future, do you know if there are there any plans to do that in the future?
I took a quote from OP for the instructions section, but [here it is.](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/93871845/)
I'm aware of that :-)
[removed]
I believe you need to trick Scratch into treating your variable like a string instead of a number. Try using the `join` block to concatenate numbers. Edit: I realize that sounds weird since only numbers are allowed in cloud variables, but it does that by only allowing numeric characters. I'm pretty sure that large strings of numbers can still be stored in this way.
I am not a native Spanish speaker, I am taking Spanish classes in high school. I think it's interesting - I can understand what your program does. I should change my Scratch to Spanish :) -- No hablo español, yo tomo la clase de español en mi escuela. Pienso es interesa - Entiendo que su programa puede hace. Debo que cambiar mi Scratch a español :)
The cloud variables can also handle (very long) hexadecimal numbers, given that the start with the string 0x. This is probably the fastest and most efficient coding of binary into a cloud variable.
Great game, added it to the list "Kultspiele in Scratch". Descriptions are in German on this page, but the thumbnail links to the games should help. See http://scratch-dach.info/wiki/Kultspiele_in_Scratch
Well, this is a reddit-based community, so I personally don't think it's necessary to change the link. We could however add something like a "warning sign" to emphasize that the vast majority of reddit isn't family friendly — if people think that we need to. 
Hola, sí, me encantaría 
This is my first project in Scratch, so feedback is greatly appreciated. Also, if you noticed any bugs, please do not hesitate to let me know. :) 
[](#meow) \[](#meow) [](#gobo) \[](#gobo) [](#waffle) \[](#waffle) [](#taco) \[](#taco) [](#apple) \[](#apple) [](#pizza) \[](#pizza) [](#flag) \[](#flag) The stylesheet indicates that these are all of them.
Thank you!! It means a lot that you say that. Yea, the ufo issue is something that I plan on looking into later today after getting off work. Thanks again for the feedback! :) 
1. 13 2. Sorta experienced 3. I've done some tinkering in batch and HTML 4. IDK anymore
hey not a problem! credit where its due and all that. if i send you a pm, would you be willing to critique mine? its been a bit of a struggle if im being honest!
Yes, I'd love to! Please pm me. 
[Super Scratch Programming Adventure](http://www.amazon.com/Scratch-Programming-Adventure-Covers-Version-ebook/dp/B00IK002Z0/ref=sr_1_3?s=digital-text&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1453257385&amp;sr=1-3&amp;keywords=Scratch) is what I used with my middle school daughter in homeschool - great fun!
Yeah. You could do it.
You could use one object with a costume and sound for each letter to do it - there's no limit of these per sprite. Having only one letter show up at a time might not actually be a bad thing for preschoolers.
Thanks for that. Great idea I'll try to implement it. The current score uses the same technique to record the high score while playing a game. I didn't realise you could have a persistent variable. Thanks again. I'll check out the bug too, it might be something to do with the ctrl key check I use. 
Honestly, that's a really fun game. It's difficult enough to make me want to keep playing but not so easy that it's boring. It's not ridiculously hard to grasp either and, since you're beating your own score, it's not intimidating. Nice work!
Thanks a lot! I really appreciate it. 
It's been in there for a while and it seems to me like the offline editor is just sort of an afterthought, so maybe Eventually™. 
1: Early teens. 2: Pretty proficient, even though I never complete good projects 3: Python 2, a bit of JS 4: My dad showed me it.
Honestly, if I wasn't broke I'd guild you. I couldn't find this info in any tutorial or on the Scratch site.
This isn't an official way of doing things (hint: an official way of doing things doesn't exist in programming), just problem solving. 
[Here's an example](http://i.imgur.com/fJNnFxB.jpg) where I disabled the "say hello" part.
Sprites with a ghost effect of 100% can still be clicked even though you can't see them. Alternatively, you could use "if mouse x &lt; 150 and mouse x &gt; 140 and mouse y &lt; 10 and mouse y &gt; -10" or something of the sort.
No, the secret code is "broken". Sorry, bud, the game doesn't work.
I highly recommend you try this in phosphorus, in fullscreen mode: http://phosphorus.github.io/#96738440 Here's a screenshot: http://i.imgur.com/zlWarJy.png
Thank you. I couldn't get the Enter hack to work. But I was able to change Ask to Say (I swear I'd tried that). Only now it won't wait for the User to click. Is there a way to make it wait for a Click?
Project is here: https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/96863730/ I'd appreciate any feedback.
do you know any real programming languages? because the complexity in that application exceeds what some of mine do in c#
Hey, thanks for commenting. No actually. I'm doing a computer science MOOC called CS50 (no prior background, I'm an architect) and as a first exercise, we had to create a project using Scratch so we can familiarize ourselves a bit with programming concepts. What I set out to create was just the 'rain' effect of the letters, and then I started adding a bit to it. I really enjoyed the process. 
pm me id like to teach somebody programming as i never actually get to use it every day. imagine using scratch to make reddit clients, or music players you can take functions out of(you know, less intensive "ahem itunes") hell you could even make programs to help with the architecture. a course in programming usually only covers some basic parts and introduces you but doesnt really make you experiment with anything outside a language (like reddit, or completely destroying a computer for the fun of it)
Fixed.
Thank you!
Flash is essentially obsolete already. Scratch is going to need to migrate sooner or later.
Thank you! Haha.
[removed]
Impressive indeed... didn't realize how 'Open' Scratch is :)
No Worries, you don't have to fix it for me but I would like some pointers to fix it. Thanks in advance! EDIT: Some more info. My secret plans sprite keeps messing up and taking lives of and I'm pretty new to this so I don't know how to fix this. 
Yeah but I make my illustrations in Adobe Illustrator. When I import them in Scratch they already get unsharp even though I click Convert to vector.
https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/98112504/ Try it if you want! :D
Colours used: Project: background-color: #ff8c00; border-color: #ef7c00; Question: background-color: #1f9bd0; border-color: #0f8bc0; Meta: background-color: #63ae63; border-color: #539e53; Extra changes: .flair, .linkflairlabel { padding: 1px 2px; color: white; }
Did you use Stylish for this? If not, I can make a style for you that does this. :)
It's a simple method of filtering chat and the reason behind making it is because I can.
Pretty interesting. Could use some scenery, but otherwise pretty nice by Scratch standards. Got a few achievement ideas... -Box Hopper; Jump on one box, and land on another. -And His Name Is...; Type "johncena" on your keyboard. -The Meaning; Type "42" on your keyboard. -Can You See?; Move around with the Achievements menu open. -Quick; Click one of the "Achievement Unlocked" pop-ups. EDIT; List wasn't actually a list first time :P Fixed!
Some background: I taught a small class of nine kids the basics of Scratch and introduced them to game programming. The class makeup was a bit of a surprise to me. I had expected ten-year-olds and up because we had marketed the workshop to Grade 5, 6, 7, and 8. Some folks, thought, took the line from the brochure “welcome to kids of all ages” a little too seriously and I ended up with a much much younger set (the youngest being second graders). I reconfigured the material and though I fumbled a bit we (the students and me) managed to pull it off.
Great stuff, congratulations! How many sessions did you have?
So far one session. We have planned for two. Since the kids are much younger than I expected, I have to think up of simpler examples for next week!
cool! What projects did you make? How much time did you have? I'm planning something like this for Scratch Day.
For the first session last Saturday, I took them through the basics of the Scratch web site -- how to access games, how the editor worked, how to look into other people's games. I then introduced them to sprites and the different possible actions. I showed them the move actions and pen up / pen down. I showed them how to change costumes. They sort of took it from there. I then taught them how to build control scripts for characters, they got it, despite their young age. Next week, I'm going to be a bit more structured and craft some simple game environments -- maybe a platformer, a shooter, and a racing game. Then I'll teach them how to build levels and draw maps for that game. Am also thinking of using it as a tool for storyboarding. Will update you guys how it turns out.
Either just load them online by opening the scratch editor and going to File &gt; Open from my computer Or download [this](https://scratch.mit.edu/scratch2download/)
.sb2 files are really just archives, so you can open them (with 7zip for instance) and find all the sprites and sounds of the project. If you want to edit the project, you'll have to use the offline editor like /u/KARMA_P0LICE suggested. 
Huh. Pretty simple, but could be turned into something great. It looks like it's hovering a bit off the ground. Is this intentional? I like it.
&gt;Beyond that, you should do your own homework. :) And it's homwework on Scratch. Something I actually wouldn't mind doing.
That depends... According to the Community Guidelines (https://scratch.mit.edu/community_guidelines/), games and projects can be removed if they're deemed "too violent". That seems like something that's pretty open to interpretation so, while you *can* share a game like this, it may get reported as being too violent and then get taken down. If you're more worried about the game mechanic, I'd change the lizards to "paint bucket monsters" or something to that effect and have them explode and leave "paint" behind.
You could always have the sprites fade out and remove themselves after a certain amount of time. You'd still get a lasting "coverage" effect, but you'd still be working within it. I think what you're trying to do is still possible but with a few edits. :-D
Fading out would not be the same, but I was thinking about adding sprites for bigger pools. If there are two small splatters near each other, they change into one bigger pool. But still, I'd rather not post it publicly on Scratch :)
They will of course mail you with their promotions, etc. So you may consider that to be SPAM if you are not interested in their other offerings. Or maybe I forgot to tick the do not mail me checkbox.
I am limited to using 1.4 (in a Raspberry Pi lab in a country that doesn't allow access to the MIT site) so I was excited to see an example of using the "build your own blocks" feature of 2.0 - I suspect it adds to teaching students to think about functions, classes, etc. My students are just beginners - demos like this are great to give them (and me!) ideas of what is possible. Thanks for the contribution to the community!
Recall that gravity can be treated like a force that's pulling everything towards the ground. When you jump you can give the sprite jumping a command that's something like "Change 'jump' to 10". I'm assuming "jump" is your variable for the sprite's speed while jumping. Since you want them to keep going up, your code looks correct for that, you already have him going up until the player lets go of the up key Then after that you can make a loop, something like "repeat until touching colour green" "change y by jump" "change jump by gravity" for gravity as some negative constant. When the loop is over (once the sprite's touched some green) then you can give a command to correct the position like "set y to ___" for whatever y position makes it look like the sprite's on the ground instead of in it. Here on earth it's a close approximation to say that your speed's changing a constant amount per unit of time, so that would give a somewhat realistic falling animation. I hope this helped
If we're doing a tower stack of height 3, one solution is just to make a new costume for each possible configuration of a tower. There's only 8 configurations, and so we could easily draw them. For a more elegant solution, we could make use of the pen. If you google Tower of Hanoi there's plenty of images to use as inspiration, and many shouldn't be too hard to draw with the pen. I'm not certain how different snap and scratch are, though.
Done!
Cool. Can you tell me how to get rid of scripts after using them in Scratch? Such as, I make a game with a character talking to you, you press a certain button to make him say the next dialog. Now, how do I make him not say that dialog when I press that button again. Please help me man.
Yea I am not sure. You can use a variable and a ++ counter to time out the dialog. Maybe use the wait seconds block in some way.
Welp, nobody out of 200 people don't use reddit :I
I have to pass this next week. Maybe just a link to a tutorial or video???
// Twelve // Fairly experienced, my graphics look like crud though // HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Python, Ruby, Jade, Markdown (if that counts), SCSS, and some other pre processors // idk :p
Can you link to your Scratch profile so I can see some of your projects?
this is just a bait post because you're like "PAY ATTENTION TO ME PLEASE!"
Nope, never got that.
Hi! This is exactly what the notification says it is. We sent out these invitations to be interviewed about the community to a small number of users. You can follow the link for more information, though it's only relevant if you were invited. In the future, we'd appreciate it if you didn't publicize personal information that was shared privately with you - it's not only against the rules on Scratch, but Imgur and Reddit too.
I got one a long time ago but never acted on it. Seemed neat though
OK. I'll keep it in mind. Thanks!
You're going to want to create a "forever" loop ( or other repeat block ), then inside that loop, put a "play SongName until done". The "until done" is important.
Thanks.
Eh, I have 200 follows and I'm proud, just wondered if anyone knew me here
Sounds like functions! It would be fantastic.
I think that's one of the reasons the backpack was created, since you can create template blocks (or sprites), place them in your backpack, and use them in any project! :) Having full-on templates made by the Scratch team would hinder creativity a bit if you ask me, because what I really like about Scratch is that there's always multiple ways to come up with a script.
Good point, but I think that a Template function would save time. Also, some people (myself included) like having just one way of doing certain things.
Reddit doesn't have admins monitoring every subreddit 24/7. It's the users' responsibility to take action. I'm not just trying to be grumpy - there are some really horrible people on Reddit and we shouldn't be fostering underage kids here.
I probably didn't phrase this correctly. I think that you guys should just report anyone that you can prove is under 13. For example, there were a few guys that said they were 12 over on an introduce yourself thread. That's the kind of stuff I'm talking about. 
Yes, there may be some awful people on Reddit (and the Internet in general), but just because they swear and post some content that is *ahem* NSFW, doesn't mean they're "horrible people". And I thought Scratch demographic was one of the main points of your original argument, unless I've been mistaken.
wow the first project is amazing. however I dont think it should be used to teach your classes. it can be confusing since they need to understand what coding is.
Cool!
tosh tosh tosh tosh tosh
I repeated this section for all 4 direction keys, originally i didnt have it this way, i just used the "next costume" button and "move x to" and it was smooth, but now I have a weird stutter step going on.
The sprite is currently being told to wait a negative amount of time between costume changes. I assume Scratch just interprets this as no time change, so what's happening in your script is: * As soon as the left arrow key is pressed, the avatar moves five pixels to the left and changes its costume. * Almost immediately, it changes its costume again. * And again. * And so on, until it gets to the costume "left8" at which point it waits for the key press to start over again. I hope this helps you identify your problem! :)
So what would be the solution to stop the weird stutter? It is negative / 0 on purpose. I dont want a gap between sprites, but i cant figure out how to use the change costume consecutively without putting a wait block in there.
You're missing a wait -1 sec block between the change x by -5 and switch costume to left1 - may make the animation smoother.
Try wait 0.1 seconds, or another small number. It could be going too fast.
its hard. I like it. it could be less sensitive though.
Thank you! :D
The obvious fix to me seems to be a color detection script, but I can't get it to work. So this is the script for when the jumping works without detection. 
Spektor Scroller on Scratch https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/100231481/ If you were interested in a simple scroller, here's my attempt. There's one glitch I can't solve that I mention in the notes. If you find a solution, let me know. 
You can't move sideways while jumping because of the "glide to ____" block in your jumping script. Since the command is to glide to a specific position, it'll go to the position you've told it to in the amount of time specified. Gravity can be treated like a constant acceleration downwards. So for jumping I like to have a sprite be moved by a certain velocity, then that velocity changed by an acceleration.
what blocks should I use in the place of the glide?
I like to use a variable I usually name "y velocity", then have it set to an initial velocity like maybe 10, then have a script that repeats until the sprite touches the ground that has "change y by 'y velocity'" then "change 'y velocity' by 2" The changing 'y velocity' accounts for how your speed is changed by gravity. The numbers will change how long or how short the jump is, it's best to fiddle around with them and get what fits best for your project.
the "change y by" block works for the jumping but not the gravity.
That's why you also change the variable that the y is being changed by. I made a bit of a mistake by saying "change 'y velocity' by 2" it should be negative, So then you're changing y by a decreasing amount. If you start with y velocity = 10, and change y velocity by -2 each repeat then y will change by 10, then 8, then 6, then 4, then 2, then 0, then -2, then so on until the sprite touches the ground. It'll go up fast, then slow down, stop moving for a bit, then decrease and speed up til it hits the ground like you would see if you threw a ball. Is this helping?
It would be cool for the new scratchers like you could make a sprite and a backround then you could put that in you backround and cause most(prob not) notice the backpack…but it would be cool if you can use it in the editor two and also……here is the [](#flag)-vote you will need it(maybe)
Yes, of course you can put links in your post to explain what you mean. Are you talking about custom text (e.g. "Hello, this is an example") or custom fonts (e.g. [these](https://www.google.com/search?q=fonts&amp;newwindow=1&amp;biw=1366&amp;bih=635&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ved=0ahUKEwjd6PXrt7bMAhWCCpoKHet4DFQQ_AUIBigB))?
Im talking about those text i see in some games like tone of the voice [](#meow) and can go faster and slower
This comment sums up my experience on Scratch and this subreddit.
FFS, I once got a report for saying "That's the second time you've asked me that" to someone who blatantly copy/pasted an invite to their logo contest. Absolutely disgusting. (I said "FFS" on a website meant for people ages 13 and up? Sue me!)
Here's the thing: Reddit makes it very clear that subreddit rules are important to their respective communities. /r/Scratch is moderated to be "family friendly" because Scratch is mainly targeted towards children. This just gives everyone more options, e.g. parents could show their kids a link on here and the discussion that followed. Swearing is a great tool for expressing yourself, but in the wrong context, it can be hurtful and damaging. We put these rules in place not because we want to restrict anyone from speaking their mind but because this community is supposed to be a place of friendly and civil discussions.
"FYI I did not downvote /u/Cakesandpies101 until today" Thanks for admitting the fact that you downvoted my post. Thank God you deleted your account.
I deleted my account because I didn't want to look at this thread anymore. I don't like being called immature and it really takes a toll on my real life for some reason. I'm 14, and in real life I'm probably the most mature kid in school. I'm never rowdy or swearing, probably the only one in class who doesn't make dirty jokes just because they can. The only posts I downvoted were your "righty-o then" (because I didn't think it contributed to the discussion) and the one I am replying to just now. You may think Reddit is a place to be a "snarky redditor", but really you have to also keep in mind that there's always a real person with feelings behind that name that's typing behind the computer. Would you say stuff like "I'm glad you deleted your account, you're everything wrong with this community" in real life? In real life that would probably count as bullying, and I hope you're not a bully. TL;DR even though I regrettably violated the reddiquette a few times, it doesn't give you a free pass to do the same.
to embed a swf into html, the code goes like this &lt;embed src="images/tri.swf" height="400" width="700"&gt; but what I get from this is just the player rather than the whole editor with the blocks
Hey, I'm fourteen too, and even I can recognize that you might want to dismount that high horse you've been riding. Superiority complex ≠ maturity.
When I link the html file, it suppose to be like this http://imageshack.com/a/img921/7757/aPKYUo.png but i get this instead when I connect with xampp http://imageshack.com/a/img921/7048/vxDLvy.png Please someone help me, i quite desperate with it 
yeap, I am sorry about my poor grammar. I been looking for the solution for quite a time but still I can't find it , now starting to doubt is it possible or not.
Thank you for your feedback. Thank you very much
Good job on the CSS, but the problem is that it's not flexible. The current flair adjusts its size to the length of the text, but this one just lets the text flow out of its borders on Firefox.
Hmm... I'll have to look at that another day since I don't have time right now. The problem is obvious, however.
Can you share a comparison?
Amazing!
...Try clicking the green flag.
That sounds incredible! Although I think that Scratch 2.0 still needs some improvement here and there. Anyway, scratch on mobile devices is something I've been waiting for for a long time. Hype!
**Something tells me you didn't try it.** Because it works fine for me.
All of the above! 
Not a problem! :)
Would be very cool, indeed!
http://i.imgur.com/uzxxsDJ.png
You need to learn to write efficiently in Scratch, otherwise a big project won't run very smoothly. For example, here's a game I made [before](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/2898943/) and [after](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/17974396/) I added new levels, it became nearly unplayable. Scratch can handle really large projects, it's just a few things that make them run slowly (which you can also read about in the [wiki](https://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/Efficient_Programming)): * Some graphical effects * Long custom scripts running without screen refresh * Using excessive amounts of sprites simultaneously, especially clones You'll see what works and what doesn't, just start working on your idea and either adapt to your possibilities or change them completely :) 
By the way, it's not the *backdrop sprite*, it's the **stage**.
This is a great tip! Thanks :)
Hey man! Did you ever get round to doing an explanation of this? I'm trying reach out to some kids I work with who'd love to learn more about this stuff
Perhaps this is a sign that [ScratchX](http://scratchx.org/) extensions will be added to the official library soon?
Pick one. I've tried it on Firefox, Chrome, and even IE. I would even record a screenvid for you, but I've got better things to do.
The simplest way to get an arching projectile is with a parabola. Instead of using glide, set an x speed and a y speed as sprite variables, and change position by those speeds each frame. For example: When I start as a clone: set dx to 10 set dy to 10 (or some value based on mouse loc) repeat until touching obstacle: change x by dx change y by dy change dy by -0.5 (adjust for more or less gravity) See this example: [https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/109980654/](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/109980654/) 
&gt; When I start as a clone: &gt; set dx to 10 &gt; set dy to 10 (or some value based on mouse loc) &gt; repeat until touching obstacle: &gt; change x by dx &gt; change y by dy &gt; change dy by -0.5 (adjust for more or less gravity) If I wanted the parabola to change based on the mouse location, I would change the "set dy to 10" to "set dy to (what?)".
Yes, now you can see how inaccurate the first method is. The second method fires at a much more obvious angle, but doesn't answer the question of how much force to use (move __ steps). You could use another input to set the force, or use a turret variable that gets upgraded during gameplay.
I'm an idiot. I just tried something, and it works almost perfectly...and I ended up using only one variable. xD https://gyazo.com/80b6d4851406fd9f6d947f498060ed38 I just have one final problem to iron out...which I dealt with by making it faster. https://gyazo.com/4719783b9d1c26ad715324938b38960c Thanks for the help, and having to put up with my questions.
Nice, that's a pretty smooth arc.
The wiki has some very good pages to help, like [this one.](https://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/3D)
You are a very generous and wonderful person! I don't have any specific projects I'm having trouble with, but what I'd like help with is ideas... I'm a primary school teacher in Australia and am trying to think of Scratch projects to teach children (aged about 8-11) but the projects need to have a 'real-life' component. It's important that we're not just teaching how to use Scratch, but how to tell stories, solve problems, etc, with Scratch, that we'd normally expect them to do with pen and paper. In my area of education it's called 'Integrating digital technologies in the curriculum'. Recently I saw a simple Scratch project to show how rain can make a sapling grow into a tree: https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/112551496/ Also, I'm only just above beginner-level in Scratch but haven't really needed to improve too much because as I say, I'm looking for real-world ideas I can simulate simply in Scratch. Sorry for the long-text! I'd love to hear any ideas you have. Cheers :-) 
any ideas on how to optimize [this](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/112659560)
Well about the tree project, you have a few problems. First off, you are unable to click the tree sprite because the **cloud** sprite is blocking your mouse. To fix this, view the changed code on the tree sprite in my **remix** . I had to change one thing about this though. Instead of clicking the sprite, you click the **space** button to make it grow, while it is touching the cloud. The next problem you have is that the positioning of the cloud is a little off from your mouse. This is a very easy fix. just go to the cloud's **costumes** area, then rearrange it so the positioning is in the most middle-like area possible. Once you have done these things, your project should be completely fixed. A few things I suggest adding though is to set the **ghost** variable on the cloud to **25%**, so they can see the tree growing behind it. Also, a wait time (mine was .3 seconds) for each time the tree grows, so it does not grow up too quickly. There you go! If you need more help just reply.
Scratch 1.4 is pretty old. Have you tried [Scratch 2.0](https://scratch.mit.edu/scratch2download/)? 
...slow?it loads faster than reddit!(Am in China,can confirm)
Try 2 different scripts....one for movement and one for costume changes. 
https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/36663392/
If you're that worried add a question that would baffle most kids at the start that you have to answer to proceed. Shows you have considered the issue then.
Ask what a floppy disk is.
Okay, that sounds like a good question to ask.
Nah, you don't have to apologize. I know that you meant no harm or spam. Thank you anyways.
Thank you for accepting my sincere apology for answering your question. 
Okay, now THAT came out wrong.
exactly ;)
Nice. Car handles really well. 
I've just checked out your remix and it's perfect! Thank you so much!
what exactly were you hoping to accomplish with this post? 
I liked it, but here's what i'd do: If you think you have improved a great deal since you've started, then start again. I can see many flaws with this, with the less than "AWESOME" graphics, but I think if you've improved a lot, and you think you could do better, then start over. Your choice :)
Congrats on your game! You may want to copy the link of the project and paste it here. You can still edit this post to add your link. :)
You need to share the project so that we can see it.
Hey I shared it now - thanks for taking a look!
The problem is [here](http://i.imgur.com/5eEMj13.png). Can you see it?
If its the repeat 1 - I was trying to troubleshoot and thought maybe I needed a loop. But I expect Ball to travel to the right unless it touches dog2. So no I don't see it. :)
That totally makes sense and thanks for walking through it for me.
Thanks for this - I totally wasn't thinking that the touching check would only occur at the point of pressing spacebar because the sprite kept moving. I think that explains why I was having trouble with the Dog2 and Kitty collision too and why I was able to fix it.
You should move everything beneath 'create clone of myself' to the top of 'when i start as a clone' What your current code does is creates a clone, which is hidden because at that point the sprite is hidden, and never shows itself because there's no 'show' under 'when i start as a clone'.
Thank you! That fixed the deleting issue. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask one more question: I want the sprite to repeat those actions whenever time=5 but when I add the forever loop it just gives me a million Rancid Rabbits at a time. I've tried repeat until time&lt;1 and it doesn't work either. Any suggestions? edit: Nevermind, figured it out! Thanks again for your help!
Glad you got it sorted :)
Very cool. Must have taken a very long time! I like the animations and sound effects. Nicely done.
The issue with that is newer users might get confused of what the JSON text means, or try to change it.
Wait slow down. Scratch 3.0‽ Please tell me it's going to be HTML 5 or something other than flash or Java. 
Yissssss! Thanks for informing me.
Make 4 different Sprites that show/hide when each button is pressed
Wow, that's uplifting news to have it run at 60 TPS :D
The easiest way right now - I believe - is to download [LLK/scratch-blocks](https://github.com/LLK/scratch-blocks), and then open one of the [test](https://github.com/LLK/scratch-blocks/tree/develop/tests) files. You kind of have to hope the compressed built files were [built recently](https://github.com/LLK/scratch-blocks/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=is%3Apr%20recompile). For this example I was lazy and ran [joaoh1's Scratch Blocks Online Test](https://joaoh1.github.io/sb-onlinetests/). :) EDIT: looks like you need to build before you can run the test files, at least for me, right now.. hmm.. Here's my [install command line code](https://github.com/LLK/scratch-blocks/issues/338#issuecomment-220284931) (from scratch ^no^pun^intended!). EDIT*2: I was using a broken clone, you can probably ignore my first edit :)
If you mean when they get stuck on the corner and then glitch, that is because of how you coded it. This happens because the sprite has reached an edge, and then flips himself 180 degrees - however the sprite is still touching the edge. The sprite gets stuck in a loop of constantly flipping itself because the 'touching the edge' condition is still true. There is a block designed just for this problem, in the "Motion" tab, called "if on edge, bounce". Once you implement this change, you'll notice that the scratch cat seems to be slow than the sprite you designed, however that is because your sprite is larger, and therefore has less distance to travel before it bounces.
Pretty active development going on! [Here's the official pull request currently implementing it](https://github.com/LLK/scratch-blocks/pull/493). PS I should note that by "will" I mean "as development is going currently". Scratch 3.0 is pretty new and definitely still in development so we don't *really* know what's going to be there and what isn't. :)
Hopefully in radians too?
oo, that block design is pretty sweet. nice and clean.
Wow! That's pretty epic! My use of trig was fairly basic in this example; I was using the cosine rule to determine the diameter of the pen. :-)
The "timer" built-in variable actually holds more precision than it appears. For example, if you create a new variable and set the variable to be equal to the timer, you'll see you get quite a few more decimal points. Because of this, when you see the timer saying, "5.0" seconds, it's secretly something like 5.02 seconds. Scratch then reads 5.02 mod 5 = 0.02 which isn't 0, so no laser spawns. A better solution would probably be to have forever - wait 5 seconds - spawn laser.
Oh cool!
Ok
Ok
Tweaked it a little. I think you'll like this version. .flair-text { border: none; border-radius: 0px; min-width: 36px; min-height: 12px; height: auto; background: url("%blockFlairLeft%") 0 / contain no-repeat, url("%blockFlairRight%") right / contain no-repeat, url("%blockFlairMid%") 0 / contain repeat-x !important; margin: 0px 4px -4px 0px !important; padding: 5px 5px 8px; font-size: 10px !important; } If you implement this, I'd appreciate some kind of credit in the sidebar, but I won't insist.
Ok!
You just really needed to feel important, didnt you?
[Neat!](http://i.imgur.com/qtWlDtF.png)
I tried this and it works when I hide it. It doesn't hide when i restart the game though. EDIT: I saw that I have to hide when the game begins.
It doesn't hide when restart EDIT: I see what you meant, I have to use the 'Looks' to hide it when the game begins.
I don't think so, as Scratch doesn't have any commands that let you access the Internet.
Maybe it's just me but the link you gave me isn't loading. EDIT: nvm, its working.
That's super cool! With the possibility of Scratch running at 60fps, in 16:9, could we potentially see a new ability to post games on other sites like GameJolt or even Steam without the need for an external tool like phosphorus? What if exporting projects to other formats became a native feature? The feature is already (at least partially) built-in to Blockly.
https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/116606632/ I gave it a go, seems to work smoothly.
Your original is better. I can't speak to the performance aspect of it, but the remix is uneven and way too fast in terms of the falling speed. Is there an end to this game yet?
Are you sure the forever shouldn't go around the if-else? forever if touching sprite b then hide stop all scripts else move left to right end end 
All of the remix is tweakable, I just went with his original values. 
Okay, here's a better version of my script then: repeat until touching sprite b move left to right end The sprite will keep moving left to right until it touches the sprite "b".
Could you share your project and link to it here so we can try to fix the issue in a remix?
Here is the link to it: https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/115943398/
Try and explain what didn't work exactly. I took a look around in your project and I'm pretty sure it has to do with the use of the gliding script. I redid the script and I've tested it to make sure it works. [Here](http://imgur.com/NleKWmk.jpg) is the new script. You'll notice that in order for the script to center the Bulbasaur correctly, you will have to change the orientation of the sprite. I did it like [this](http://imgur.com/QwxLUMb.jpg). This is basically to allow the &lt;abs of ()&gt; script to work (the absolute value block just makes the script less cluttered as it reduces the need for the sprite to detect whether it is too far on the left or right side). Also, in taking out the gliding script, I used the &lt;move [] steps&gt; script. This also means I have rotate the sprite 180 degrees whenever the sprite has to walk another way. To do this and prevent the sprite from physically flipping the costumes, you have to select [this option](http://imgur.com/vYKOXii.jpg) for the sprite. If you have any questions just ask me. P.s: I also fixed it so that your [background](http://imgur.com/zctBSh0.jpg) wouldn't activate the script every time you clicked even after the first time.
Thanks alot, I was hoping it wouldn't be this complicated but after trying several times to get this to work I figured it would be. Appreciate this alot, I know using regular programming syntax would be easier and I understand the concept very well though. When I add another sprite to switch I will ask again if I have any problems
Ok
I've run a few Scratch camps in my day. Here are some tips followed by curriculum ideas. Tips: 1. Use the desktop version of scratch and don't introduce them to the web version until the end. This will save you the headache of keeping them off of the slither.io clones. 2. Try to have a challenge for every day that scaffolds into a final project that students can work on themselves with your guidance. 3. At some point I recommend getting them on the browser version and starting a studio they can contribute to. You can have them set up an account with their parent's permission or generate your own accounts for your class. Curriculum Ideas: Here are some things that make good daily challenges and the skill breakdown DRAWING PROGRAM -movement of sprite with arrow keys -pen up and down controls -using the if statements -using the forever loop -advanced challenge: make it work with the mouse MAZE GAME -movement of sprite with either mouse or keys -using if commands for touching colors (maze is one color) -designing backdrops -creating a game over screen and the conditions that create it -creating a timer that gives you a score when you complete the maze WATER BALLOON THROWING GAME -Using mouse click to save x and y position to variables -using a loop feature to shrink a sprite giving the appearance of movement away -generating randomness timers for when target sprites appear -Optional challenge: random x and y values for targets -Score counter variable for successful hits -costume changes for sprites for successful hits When students get through these challenges they can design their own game at the end that uses the things they learned. If you are interested, pm me your scratch name and I will invite you to our studios.
I'm kind of late about announcing it on /r/scratch.. oh well!
So you mean that you can make your own blocks that will return values? In other words, you will be able to have functions that return values. That will be really good, as it is probably the main feature of proper programming languages that Scratch is missing.
AAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!! AWESOME!
It was made in keystone and exported to powerpoint. If it looks terrible let me know and I'll do a pdf instead. 
 Scratch Offline Editor, or the Online Editor
All I can say is that blocks look right now and that's awesome! 🎉
**To add a friend go to your user page and click the add friend button.**
**Please do not post this in r/scratch, or for that matter, anywhere.** **Do *good work*, and friends will come naturally.**
[Image](http://imgur.com/KSYTP77)
&gt; do we need flash player to share a project Yes, I think you do need flash to share a project.
You need the flash player to view and edit projects, though I'm not sure you need it to share a project. Does it really matter though? If you don't have the flash player you won't be able to make a project to share anyways!
hi i am lopelreddit i am a new user i want to put a profile picture on scratch can any one please help me
&gt; in my browser this theme is not comming Can you take a screenshot? What browser are you using? 
i am on reddit so i cant message screenshot
my email id is alredy confirmed
Can you upload a screenshot [here] (https://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0ahUKEwiIi5yMyqXOAhUoxYMKHQBODQAQFggdMAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fimgur.com%2F&amp;usg=AFQjCNHmbt_SSm5ya9gybWVLkX0Zo-PIDQ&amp;sig2=EMAo98n9Nh4ia3SUl6PX0w) and give me the link?
please help me
&gt; my project is not shared yet help me Did you press share?
sorry for that message my project is now shared
Nice work. I really like the visual style. It's very fun. I got to the 5th level or so. Pretty inspiring project. Congratulations.
thanks!...
thank you nikey9 thank you [](#taco)
You're evil. Very difficult, but addictive game. Love the art style.
Here's what you need to enter in text form: https://scratch.mit.edu/discuss/post/2137310/ I think you can go and directly serve test/*_playground.html without rebuilding, but if you want to modify anything you'll need to be able to rebuild (and hence the closure-library setup is necessary). To apply changes you make, just run build.py again
Nice! Very concise. :-]
OK
It's awesome! Your game should have LOTS of more likes and favorites!
Where?
I think it's supposed to be the Scratch Cat that pops up on a project when you report it.
yeah ikr, the thing is, im trying to rise with a great success because of Scratchingsoft Group, Not only for PCs and that, but animations, art, or Games! | Curators: JackNguyen369, NestorSan | Managers: SuperScratchMaker123 (me)
mainly just want to have some sort of two-dimensional list without having to resort to slow and hacky solutions.
What kind of things would you use it for? Isn't this a bit of an unnecessary and confusing concept?
Some way to keep references to clones would be nice.
A more flexible data container, even simple database functions.
This is Scratch for young kids!
As /u/hiccup01 said - a lambda block. And script-local variables. After that basically anything can be done.
In what way? Do you need to know the MIDI equivalents through the sound blocks?
The stage doesn't have any - if they're missing from other sprites, try reloading the page.
Don't get your hopes up, afaik no .exe convertors work correctly.
No, however check out https://www.reddit.com/r/RequestABot/ You can request a bot, or for something simple such as just a reply, they have premade python code with which you can create your bot.
Cool! I'll try to work on it, but do you know if those .exes can be broken down/unpackaged into code/text files and sound/art files?
Did you read the post? Or just the title? &gt;I've experimented using ... BYOB/Snap.
I've converted it as a .exe several times, I just mostly need a way to unpackage it into editable code.
There are plenty of kinds of projectiles. The way I usually do it is to make a clone of a sprite and then have it move in the planned pattern. For example, if the projectile moves straight, you can have it move continually *x* steps or so. Or you can attach it to gravity. Or bouncing. Or homing. There are tons of things you can do, just tell me what kind of projectile and I can help you out. :) To choose what happens when the projectile hits something, use forever if &lt;touching (projectile**v**)&gt; commands
Well, I basically have a sprite which is where the projectile is going to shoot from. Then I want it too be able to shoot in any direction around the sprite. Might even want to make the sprite moveable...
oh, sorry
You deffinetly can't do that... It's just not how code works. Programming languages aren't interchangeable like real languages.
Then what about [this?](http://www.infoworld.com/article/3033047/javascript/4-tools-to-convert-python-to-javascript-and-back-again.html) And [this?](http://lifehacker.com/rosetta-code-translates-your-code-into-another-progra-1639074496) And [this?](http://jsc.sourceforge.net/) My point is, all the languages are translated into something the computer can understand, which is binary. You can convert binary back into the language, which means you can convert one to another. I just am trying to find something that interprets the scratch .json.
Languages that are fundamentally the same and have similar logic can do that, but there aren't many languages like Scratch. I'm pretty sure there's ways to translate to js since it's pretty simple, but something like C++ wouldn't be compatible. You'd have to rewrite the program in that language.
Scratch uses its own .json, which is basically its own language.
Ok, thanks for the help!
I here this term being thrown around a lot, what exactly is a custom reporter (ELI5)?
Custom reporters are like custom blocks, except instead they return a value. Here's an example: define "Custom Reporter" (number) return ((number) + (1)) say (Custom Reporter (2)) // Says "3" The simplest example of a reporter is probably the (() + ()) block, it takes two values in and returns (or reports) another value out. The reason custom reporters are so cool is because you can use it for any purpose you really want. define "Player Can Find Secret" if ((username) = [Tymewalk]) then return &lt;true&gt; else return &lt;false&gt; if &lt;User Can Find Secret&gt; then (secret goes here) It's extremely useful in math-heavy projects.
You're welcome! Let me know how it works.
Thanks!
Negative. It was written in Coffeescript on Node.js.
Source?
Steam doesn't accept scratch projects, but I'm currently searching for a way to convert into written code so I can compile a game into unity and put it on steam.
I've converted it into .exe's, it's just that if you use only the scratch editor, you don't get a complete game. The art editor is limited (although you can import), file size is limited, you can't save data, it's laggy, etc. That's why I want to find a program that converts them to written code so I can compile it in unity after writing it in scratch and converting it into javascript or python or something.
Oh ok, that makes sense. If you've never been, I'd recommend /r/beyondscratch . It has tons of great resources and I'd be surprised if you didn't find *SOMETHING* that helped at all.
I came to this subreddit *from* /r/beyondscratch ;) If you find that post called "I want to convert a project to an exe" (probably like 10th or 11th on the hot page), I crossposted that from beyondscratch.
Oh awesome ;)
I appreciate the reply however old. Unfortunately the issue is not simply one of fonts - the Raspbian runs great in Chinese with several font choices. The issue seems to be with Ibus - can't get it to be active when putting text into a Scratch program, works fine with other programs (Leafpad for example), just not with Scratch. What we have been doing is write the text in Leafpad and copy/paste into the Scratch program - a wonky work around that I would love to bypass.
[Actually, people (kind of) have!](http://gamejolt.com/games/epninjaobjective-system-format/65555) He "sold" the game for free, but you probably could have entered a price when you were uploading the project. (Though I don't know how Game Jolt really works.)
Oh ok, for some reason I thought you were trying to right with the text tool. Sorry for an incorrect response :/
Thanks for the response! I agree with the limited marketing of Game Jolt and was wondering about larger platforms such as steam, but thanks anyways!
That is a clever idea, had to go check it out. Unfortunately with the text tool it seems to have the same problem - even though I can input Chinese characters on any other program it will only take the characters as Romanized characters - end up with a lot of pinyin, no matter what font I set the text tool to. Thanks for the idea though!
For some reason the sounds remind me of the original Killer Instinct. I actually kind of enjoyed the first level, although the gameplay is ridiculously simple. Spamming lightning bolts as fast as I can and seeing them sink into the dragon and slowly drain its life while dodging its fireballs was more fun than I thought it would be when I realised that was the idea. But level 2 was too hard :P
Expanding on this, I find that a lot of things that were once confusing are easier when I learned Scratch. In fact, while learning Python, 4 times out of 5 once I realized "Oh, wait, this is just like that thing I did in Scratch", everything made sense.
And I've messed with my code too much now so touching the crabs doesn't do anything, they just walk through Avery. I need to take a step away from this for now and do something else; I'll return tomorrow.
Hey! I made a remix where i fixed all the bugs and added some realism. If you have any questions you can obviously ask me :) Hope you enjoy the version and maybe learn how i made it!
Thank you for taking a look!
I saw your reply on Scratch's website and greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much for your help. I'm going to play around with it some more and figure it out. You're rad!
I also added perpective to it. So there are some scripts you may not recognize and that haven't been there before. If there's anything you don't understand, you can always ask :)
Just so you know, these were converted with: http://junebeetle.github.io/converter Edit: Okay, it's not *just so you know*, it's an ad for my converter. But it's true! :P
FLV is a movie file, not an executable. It doesn't have code in it.
I've used that, and converted it, but is there a way to get the code used in the .swf? I've figured out several ways for exe conversion by now, but I'm looking for something that allows me to have locally saved variables.
Oops, I'm sorry. If I remember correctly it was swf to exe. 
You can download the source code from my website as well. If you compile the Loader source, with your Scratch project in the folder, that will produce the same SWF output as the converter. So, you can edit that source code and do whatever you want with it. If you want detailed step-by step instructions, reply to this :)
Ok. I'm no good with any written code, which is why I'm using Scratch in the first place. I really hate syntax, but I'm probably going to start learning javascript this year. I'll download the source code, but then I'll need instructions. Thanks! :)
No, I don't.
*Deep breath* Okay... this will be long. * Download the source code zip from my website and extract it onto your computer. Find the Loader folder. This will load the Scratch project and Scratch, in the converted SWF. * Open the Settings.txt file in the Loader folder and change the zeroes to 1's to enable whichever settings you want. The Loader will read this file (well, it will be a resource inside the SWF). * Download the latest Scratch source code zip from https://github.com/LLK/scratch-flash/releases Then, extract this. The src folder is where the source code is. Move the whole Loader folder into that folder. * Get your SB2 file and name it Project.sb2 Move it into the Loader folder. Now the Loader will be able to find it. * Download the Flex SDK 4.6 from http://www.adobe.com/devnet/flex/flex-sdk-download.html This is what you will use to compile the ActionScript code (turn it from the AS source files into a SWF). It's a big download (300 MB or so). * Extract that zip as well. * You're going to be using the mxmlc compiler (part of the Flex SDK) to compile the ActionScript. To do this, you'll have to know a bit about Windows command line (CMD). Not being on Windows, I can't tell you exactly how to do it, but here's a link: http://www.computerhope.com/issues/chusedos.htm . You will have to cd to the folder where the Flex SDK is in. Then you should be able to cd to bin and run the mxmlc compiler to compile the SWF. I'm not quite sure how to do it on Windows, but the rough command you will need to use is mxmlc C:\Path\To\Scratch\Folder\src\Loader\SB2Loader.as --compiler.define=SCRATCH::allow3d,false --compiler.define+=SCRATCH::revision,0 -use-network=false --compiler.source-path+=C:\Path\To\Scratch\Folder\src --compiler.library-path+=C:\Path\To\Scratch\Folder\libs --static-link-runtime-shared-libraries=true Of course, you will have to replace C:\Path\To\Scratch\Folder with the path to the Scratch source code folder, the one containing the src folder. On my Mac, the command was /Applications/Flex\ SDK/bin/mxmlc /Users/will/Desktop/scratch-flash-448/src/Loader/SB2Loader.as --compiler.define=SCRATCH::allow3d,false --compiler.define+=SCRATCH::revision,0 -use-network=false --compiler.source-path+=/Users/will/Desktop/scratch-flash-448/src --compiler.library-path+=/Users/will/Desktop/scratch-flash-448/libs --static-link-runtime-shared-libraries=true Which, as you can see, is slightly different. This should produce a file called SB2Loader.swf in the Loader folder. That SWF file is the same as what the converter would produce. Now you can start to learn some ActionScript, and modify any of the files in src before re-running the compiler to make a new SWF. Good luck! If it doesn't work, ask me and I'll try to help.
You're welcome! :) If you're still interested in this, I just wrote a post [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/scratch/comments/506jdq/no_commercialised_scratch_games/d7bzo9v) which might be interesting to you. Warning: VERY LONG!
If you want to convert a project to SWF and show the editor with that project in it: http://junebeetle.github.io/converter/online Upload a Scratch file, choose the "Show Scripts" option, and convert it. Then, embed that SWF. Otherwise, this seems to work for me: http://cdn.scratch.mit.edu/scratchr2/static/__c9a463c38a65196ed96aa5f7abba5f7a__/Scratch.swf?autostart=false&amp;cloudToken=&amp;cdnToken=&amp;urlOverrides={%22sitePrefix%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fscratch.mit.edu%2F%22%2C%22siteCdnPrefix%22%3A%22http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.scratch.mit.edu%2F%22%2C%22assetPrefix%22%3A%22http%3A%2F%2Fassets.scratch.mit.edu%2F%22%2C%22assetCdnPrefix%22%3A%22http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.assets.scratch.mit.edu%2F%22%2C%22projectPrefix%22%3A%22http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.scratch.mit.edu%2F%22%2C%22projectCdnPrefix%22%3A%22http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.projects.scratch.mit.edu%2F%22%2C%22internalAPI%22%3A%22internalapi%2F%22%2C%22siteAPI%22%3A%22site-api%2F%22%2C%22staticFiles%22%3A%22scratchr2%2Fstatic%2F%22}&amp;inIE=false&amp;project_title=Untitled&amp;project_isPrivate=true&amp;project_isNew=true (I found it through Inspect Element!)
You're welcome. Hope it works! If you have more questions, it'd be good if you post them on my Scratch converter post (it's the top one on r/scratch right now).
(I posted this as the Reddit equivalent to https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/49843898/)
That should've been obvious. Thank you! (You're a Scratch team member, right? Cool!)
Impressive!!!!!!
Yup! Use two hat blocks, one for the animation, and one for controlling movement. Scratch executes things under different hat blocks in (sort of) parallel, so your movement script won't have to wait for the stuff in the animation script.
The walking feels very smooth. When you add jumping, you may want to make the ground its own sprite so you can check when you are touching the ground. The touching block is much more flexible than checking the sky color. The variables you use to track velocity should be for this sprite only. Using a (0,1) code for the direction isn't necessary. Comparison is just as fast if you use strings like "L" and "R", and you can join() them with costume names for good effect. When you change directions or duck at a certain point in the animation cycle, the appearance flickers a bit. It helps to centralize the display. You can use the (timer) block to figure out the right frame in an animation without using a "wait" sequence that is hard to escape from. Ceiling(timer mod 3) will always be 1, 2, or 3. Multiplying the timer makes it go faster. Then you can join that number with the rest of the costume name, with no waiting. The coins say forever: if distance to Sprite1 &lt; 20: play sound hide change score by 1 change y by 200 Since this only happens once per coin, it would be more clear to use a single "wait until" instead of a loop, and since it is testing for collision, "touching" is very useful. (Touching is always false for hidden sprites, so this would also work in a loop.) wait until touching Sprite1 play sound change score by 1 hide I've published [a remix](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/120420079/) demonstrating a few of these things. There are also other considerations like how many frames per second should the walking animation be, and should friction/acceleration apply when you are in the air.
I see you made a "Touching ground" block that loops to find the highest point of the ground. It's important to edit the options for that block to "run without screen refresh" so that it finds the top immediately instead of taking several frames.
Yes, in Sound (not the Sounds tab, the Sound scripts). There is a block called "Play note () for () beats". Click on the first option (it is probably 60) and there will be a little keyboard you can pick notes on, including the black keys. Also, 60 is C, 61 is C#, 62 is D, 63 is D#, etc. Each number is a half step. Hope that helps!
It doesn't appear to be finished, at least for me the loop that should take out one box keeps going forever. [This is how I changed it to work.](http://i.imgur.com/tM41qLP.png) Other than that, very cool project, and well written as well!
Thanks for the heads up! :) I'm gonna fix it now!
Wat.
My Scratch Account (THE ORIGINAL ONE) got Banned.
Your project isn't shared publicly, so we can't see.
You seem like you're doing quite a lot already to help him. If there are any available in the community, you could sign him up for other beginner programming classes in java or python. After scratch, the first language I learned was python from a book at my public library. If you have a library available, see what they have in terms of beginner materials. The most important thing is that you support his passion, and I can tell you really do. Good luck. 
Thank you :-) I'm really glad that he found something he can be really passionate about. Teen's life can be tough but scratch gave him a safe place where he can express himself. I didn't expect reddit to have a thread on scratch (of course they do because it's reddit!). There are many great works by fellow redditors and I can't wait to share with my son.
You're doing a great job already! When I started my parents didn't know anything about programming or how to support me in my hobby other than to give me time and access to the tools I wanted to learn, and frankly that was enough. I now work in the video game industry. With that said, depending on your own interest, You may want to consider learning it with him. I picked up scratch to teach my niece about programming, and it's been a big bonding thing for us. Being able to answer her questions about scratch and come up with ideas with each other really keeps her interest and engagement in it. One other thing you might want to try is to have more flexible computer usage rules. Rules are great of course, but you don't want to cut short or impede a process that may be beneficial to their development. Instead, restrict it based on other responsibilities that need to be done rather than arbitrary hours. If they are capable of maintaining other responsibilities, then there's no sense in restricting it further. I remember when I was his age there were spurts of weeks where I was constantly working on a project any chance I had. Other weeks I didn't. But the times I did were very significant events in my life. I entered 72 hour game making competitions, and science fairs, and worked on hobby projects with other kids I met online on various programming communities (some of whom I'd even end up working with in the industry and were roommates with). None of that would have been possible had my parents been more strict with my usage, and I believe they had a huge impact in where I ended up in life.
It's up. Pretty sure my CS teacher gave me an A. Hope your class likes it! There's also a nice Pantera song at the end when you win, let me know if anyone there knows it ;)
How about Game tester?
Job: progremer Other information in my profile…
That is my concern! I didn't know about codeacademy and just signed up! Me and my husband is not tech savvy and he doesn't have a classmate who is into programming. So I really appreciate your input. 
Thank you. I make sure to communicate well with my son and I give him enough time to explore. Your niece is so lucky to have a mentor like you. Thanks for sharing your own story. My son met children from all over the world and communicating with them on daily basis. I hope he meets some of them in person in the future!
I could tell you, but first, why was your network banned?
Hi! Your best course of action depends on your exact situation, but usually you'll want to go through appeals@scratch.mit.edu if this is a block of your home network. If your school's network has been banned, then you should talk to your teacher or someone else in charge so they can contact us in the same way.
Yeah, I'm gonna need a walk through. I know why you are saying but I don't know how to execute it. The 2nd thing is where I'm having most of my problems. I've gone through the code multiple times and I can't figure out why it's not doing it. I don't know if it's just scratch or I just missed something big. Thanks for doing this.
I didn't know there were actual Scratch team members here! I've been teaching K-6 students for the past two years using it and am amazed at the impact it's had. Thank you so much to you and your colleagues. I've been saying to people recently that one of my greatest goals would be to see Mitch Resnick speak about his and the team's work live one day.
Well, it's still indexed and searchable since it's still shared. I'm not sure if it'll appear again in the "recent" category, if that's what you mean.
I don't think it's much of a glitch hat. I think it's just a placeholder I case you have something in your backpack with the def that you deleted. They make it red so you know it's there and you can get rid of it.
Think it's great. I teach scratch, will show this to my students 
Thanks, nippleClam!
This subreddit isn't very active, I suggest you ask a shop for reviews. My favorite is Sigtons Shop
the only good thing that 2.0 gave was custom blocks and vector ^^imo
Read (and checked - memory could be bad though) somewhere that apparently 2.0 also dropped the FPS from 40fps (1.4) to 30fps!
I've done the thing on the right on its own tree, but I was just wondering if there's any real benefit to it or if I'm just being redundant
"boi"
Very good. Great art/music too. What years are they teaching this?
I'm in 12th but they start teaching it in 10th.
My advice to you would be to drop Scratch as soon as you feel comfortable with it. There's not much it can teach you beyond abstract programming concepts, and despite the friendly interface it is fairly limited in what it can do. I would highly recommend delving into Python to learn some more advanced programming, and then progress onto an industry-standard language if you plan on making a career out of programming. If you're just into hobbying, Python is good enough for almost anything these days.
Thanks a lot. Ill check it out
I work with non-profits that teach students to code and I would suggest getting to work on small projects as soon as possible. Come up with problems that you are interested in and then code ways to solve them - make an exercise tracker, a to-do list, a fantasy football scorecard, etc. The biggest hurdle that most beginning programmers run into is that they do well with concepts and exercises and then they struggle with turning that knowledge into useful programs. FreeCodeCamp is great because they give you little projects like that and then you work on actual projects for non-profits. If you don't want to commit yourself to that, then just come up with projects to do on your own. The point is...code, code, and then code some more and start with things that interest you.
(Sorry, I was testing post deletion) I'm Deerleg from Scratch! :) I don't use it very often anymore but I do have some projects coming up :P
There's alot i can explain, dont have much time to explain every step. Could you be more specific in what you need to know ? First of al build your own leg technic robot of choice. And a piface interface board. Then you need a L298n dc motor controller. More information how to connect the motor can be found at http://www.instructables.com/id/Raspberry-PiFace-L289N-Bi-Directional-DC-Motor-Con/ The lego technic motors use 9volts and the PI uses 5 volt. First challenge was providing these two voltages. My first prototype used a 5 volt USB powerbank for the raspberry pi. And a separate 9volt battery for the lego motors. In this version i chose two usb 5 volt powerbanks. I put them in series to provide 5volt and 10volt for the motors. 1 volt to much but that should not be a issue. I can explain lost more but please be more specific so i can eleborate. 
Hey, I am curious how much experience you have with scratch or programing in general? It seems like you might have bitten off a bit too much if you are new to both programing and scratch. OTOH if your teacher / professor / instructor is not expecting a polished game with menus, and scoring, and levels, etc it might be a reasonable project, or if you have a semester to finish it. One other suggestion I have is to use the forums on the scratch community for help. This forum is fine, but not nearly as active as the scratch forums. Back a year or so ago when I was in a different job where I occasionally had slow days where I could just screw off, I would spend a lot of time helping there just for fun and to practice programming a little, and it's just fun to help people figure out these little puzzles like,, how to create a slingshot like effect that feels right... like angry birds. Anyhow, i bet if you post there you end up getting some solid help. I have observed that there are a few very skilled people there who will jump in on interesting problems. Also. Look for other Angry bird clones, find one that works well, and look at how they did it. That's the beauty of scratch you can look at the innner workings of anything shared there. Anyhow.. sorry for the rambing reply.. it's late here. Good luck! Yertman ... AKA InternetUser_005 on Scratch
Oh no you weren't rambling at all. I have no luck with scratch forums sofar, That's why I went here. I have zero programming experience and I'm on my third week on my online hs computer science course. Sofar we have tackled the basics up to patterns and variables. I don't mind having a complicated program to make. I'm just wondering if somebody could steer me on the right way. I'm totally lost on the physics of my ball sprite. I have seen a few other games like this but I'm confused on how they managed to do it. I don't need somebody to write the script for the physics. Even an idea on where to start is fine. I just don't know where to start lol. Bad luck too my internet is down when I'm on my days off from work and going to tackle this problem. Scratch doesn't work on mobile too T_T oh well.
It's working for me, I don't know what's happening for you. If you're not using the online editor, check what version you're using. I don't know what to tell you, I'm sorry. 
It helps to use `touching (sprite)` instead of `touching color []`, and `change x/y by ()` instead of `move () steps`. With that in mind, you can create a sprite for the ground/platforms, and update x and y every main update cycle, then check for collisions, and bounce back if you have hit something. when I receive [play]: ... forever: change x by [xvel] change y by [yvel] if &lt;touching [ground]&gt;: land on ground set yvel to (0) else: change yvel by (-1) // make sure you set this to "run without screen refresh" define land on ground: repeat until &lt;not &lt;touching [ground]&gt;&gt;: change y by 1 change y by -1 See this remix for an example of separate blocks for x movement with bumping into walls, and y movement with landing on the ground: [https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/123948236/](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/123948236/)
I've had a look. Thank you very much :D
It looks like the "fall and land on ground" custom block is not set to run without screen refresh. In a platformer you usually want to land on the exact top pixel of the ground, even though you may be falling at multiple pixels per second. So we find that top pixel by overshooting a little, then moving back one pixel at a time. If all those little movements get displayed, we see bobbing up and down. Scratch normally shows a frame every time a loop repeats, but "run without screen refresh" blocks can go through a loop multiple times in one frame (limited only by computer speed). It's very useful to be able to assume that at the end of each frame, "touching ground" means the same as "on the very top pixel of the ground", so that we can move up by one pixel to tell whether we are also touching a wall.
Yeah, right-click (or shift-click) on the "define" block to edit it, open the "options" area and make sure the box by "Run without screen refresh" is checked.
Wait, what is that?
Why is this not a meme yet? :P
Is this official, and can I insert projects from Scratch 1.4/2?
Have you tried Phosphorus? It converts scratch to HTML 5, but it's usually very glitchy.
What do you think?
Yes, and yes. (Well, only 2.0 for now, but I imagine LLK will make a 1.4 -&gt; 3.0 converter as well.)
I was looking for a way to take the HTML 5/Javascript and export it. Do you know a way how?
A version of Scratch?
This is looking really good so far - I'm getting pretty excited because it looks like Scratch 3.0 is closer than I originally thought 
Yes X11 forwards the graphical interface of scratch to your PC. please install xming on you pc first https://sourceforge.net/projects/xming/ Then start a SSH session to th PI using the following config https://wiki.utdallas.edu/wiki/display/FAQ/X11+Forwarding+using+Xming+and+PuTTY Don't forget to enable compression Category–&gt;SSH Mark “Enable compression” When after login just start scratch from the command line. The GUI wil appear on you windows PC. And yes this is all wireless, just connect PI and PC to the same wireless network. 
i found an even better way to control the RPI from scratch on a windows pc. Let say the PC has IP 192.168.1.10 Just start normal scratch 1.4 on the PC and make the following mods. https://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/Mesh It is now possible to connect the scratch-handler to the IP of the windows PC. Just start a host mesh and then on the RPI start root@raspberrypi:~# pifacedigital-scratch-handler 192.168.1.10 
idk its great though
The best part is for Firefox/Linux users who can't get the latest Flash (insert rant about Adobe discontinuing it for Linux here). WOO COLOR EFFECT WORKS NOW *throws Stage3D out the window* 
repeat until not &lt;key pressed ___&gt; if costumename = (end of walking animation) set costume to (begging of walking animation else wait (__) seconds next costume
Yes. Currently, if a player joins, it takes up the player1 variable and lets them control sprite 1. If another player joins and there's only one other person connected, they fill player2 and take control of sprite 2. If someone tries to join, but both variables are filled, then they cannot join. Currently, when a player disconnects, whether it's player 1 or 2, the variable doesn't reset to empty, so another player cannot join. I'm trying to make it so that if a player disconnects, the variable they filled will revert back to being empty, thus allowing for another player to join.
This forum thread might be of use: https://scratch.mit.edu/discuss/topic/82216/
This sounds good!
To whoever flaired this as "advertisement": really? It's the *official Scratch 3.0 VM and workspace*, does it count as advertising? It's more of an announcement :P
Can't wait to see your game, send me a link when you are done!
I used other programming languages a little before Scratch, so I didn't use if at all the first time. Now, the pen block is another story...
I'm d610 on scratch! I don't use it often but I have an alt account with a few of my friends. I've been using it for...6 years? 7?
I'm [nitros12](https://scratch.mit.edu/users/nitros12/) on scratch. I have experience in: Python, C, Haskell, SourcePawn and JS. [My github](https://github.com/nitros12/)
I started Scratch about around 2010... well right when 1.4 came out at least. I'm MathlyCat on Scratch nowadays and if you wanna hear my back story with 2.0 PM me :P
And anywhere else that doesn't support Flash, like the Raspberry Pi or Linux (for newer versions)!
I noticed this the other day whole using the online editor. You can still create them, but they can take several minutes to appear. I suggest making them ahead of time.
What was it?
Does the repeat loop unghosting work? Seems like it should end up instantly unghosting the sprite. 
It does.
Looking at scripts is a good way to learn, but I have never found any good projects with good documentation inside! :D So here's my attempt to do it in a reddit comment. There are generally two parts required to make a platformer work: A collision engine and a movement engine. **The collision engine** checks the player character's surroundings to see where the ground, walls, ceiling, slopes etc. are. You could do this for example by adding a new sprite that goes to the player on each tick and cycles through a list of costumes (wall check, ground check, etc.) and sets a different variable each time depending on whether or not it touches a "solid" object. It can be done by the player object as well. Example: Go to [ player ] Point in direction [ (direction of player) ] Change costume to [ GroundCheck ] If [ (floor touched?) or (platform touched?) ] Set "TouchingGround" to 1 Else Set "TouchingGround" to 0 Change costume to [ WallCheck ] If [ (floor touched?) or (platform touched?) ] Set "TouchingWall" to 1 Else Set "TouchingWall" to 0 **The movement engine** is the easier part because it asks for player input (if left arrow key is pressed...), checks if the action is possible (... and 'TouchingWall' = 0...), and changes the player's position (... change x by 3). It's even better when you use velocity for your player and make it use variables for its position! This is all I have time to say at the moment, I hope it helps!
Very well done!
I started using Scratch in 2012 and created my account in that same year. I helped out with the beta testing of Scratch 2.0 and was one of the earlier members of the Scratch 2.0 Transition Team. During my use of Scratch, I have explored many of the different ways in which the language can be used, including sandbox games, 3D projection, and tutorials. (One of which was featured!) Since my introduction to Scratch, I've moved on to using more complicated languages such as Python and some Java. (Although I do continue to use the site and respond to questions, etc.) I also enjoy using HTML and CSS. However, I had a good understanding of those languages prior to Scratch.
Sent you an email 
FYI, you're not allowed to do this anymore. If they find out you're offering incentivized reviews, they'll pull the book and ban your seller account.
Thanks for the heads up
Doesn't this entail reviewing the book *before* reading it?
To clarify, I'll send you the ebook for free to read for the review. I've tried sending out print books up front before, but only about 1 in 4 people follow up with a review. The books at cost aren't that much, but it does add up. Though I want to emphasize that any review will get a book (some restrictions I mention: I can only ship within the US and the review should be at least 100 words)
Hi! I'm Tymewalk, also on Scratch as [Tymewalk](https://scratch.mit.edu/users/Tymewalk). I've been on Scratch for about a year and a half now. I've learned a lot such as vector art from Scratch. When I got the hang of it I found Inkscape and I have no regrets switching to fully vector. I don't make many projects now, recently I've been making animations though, and I have some more I'm working on. I've also been thinking about making a game, too. I know Python and I actually use it a lot more than I do Scratch. Over on [my GitHub](https://github.com/Tymewalk), I have many Python projects for various purposes. I'm also an avid TBGer who's writing some RPs now, learning German, messing with SourceMod for TF2, and playing Just Dance. I also made Scratchspheres which has a subreddit: /r/Scratchspheres (k enough with the ~~shameless~~ advertising) Thanks for reading, and Scratch on!
What age are the kids? I found getting a sprite to say "X is a poo poo head", then getting it to loop, then recording a fart sound to go with it got the attention of 6-7 year olds. Adjust for age, interests and sensibilities. 
Voll cool, dass du deutsch lernst! ^(Wer das hier liest ist doof) 
&gt; Voll cool, dass du deutsch lernst! Ja, Ich spreche ein bisschen Deutsch bereits :D
I'm KingdraThe3rd or BertMertDert on Scratch. I use scratch on and off, so I'm not too experienced in it. I haven't really done anything else except for a few other projects. I also made a guide to scratch which walks you through the basics of using it for programming (Can't find it now). I don't really do much because I'm too lazy -_-
There's Griffpatch's Platformer tutorial, go look it up. It's pretty good at explaining.
Have you tried closing and re-opening Chrome? Have you tried restarting your computer?
Nevermind, Internet Explorer is a good alternative. Thanks anyways though.
Tricky, but possible
I don't know what you mean by grids and webs, so perhaps I'm not the guy to ask, but I have tried to solve a problem theoretically similar to this before and I figured the only way to do it was to have the routine search outwards simultaneously from the start and the goal until they intersect, at which point the two paths that intersected are joined and that's the quickest route. But I guess by 'grid' you mean the map having discrete cells, which is the scenario I was solving for at the time. So if you have free 2-dimensional movement, can you describe the obstacles which can't be walked through?
Just maze walls, imagine heaps of empty rooms
Hows this? You made a bunch of variables you didn't need. There is a sensing block that will do what you wanted to accomplish...I think. https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/130454560/
Ooooh nice! What kind of boolean expression would you use?
Oh and check it out! I made the bus broadcast a message once the ghoul and key are touching it so that it will play a sound when a directional key is pressed thereafter!
https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/130334479/
It's little mistakes that hurt all of us. 
Hey Jeper, I'm trying to open the link but you apparently the project wasn't made to share.. 
You've got two problems. The first is that you once you change level you have a [forever loop](https://i.imgur.com/s4guia4.png) that checks what level you are and then continually moves you back to a position. I changed it by removing them from the forever loop and the green flag hat and moved it under a [when I receive levelOver message hat](https://i.imgur.com/s4guia4.png). The second problem is under the door sprite. You'll be updating the backdrop change every iteration. 
So i'm making a top-down shooter game on scratch and after 7 seconds, Box (The Shooting Character) changes its costume and obtains a second gun. I'm having trouble getting bullets to shoot from that second gun. One is facing the mouse pointer, and the other should face the opposite one. Please take a look at my script and help me out!
You're better off posting a link to the actual project. Your description of the problem isn't really enough to go by unless someone has run into the exact problem you're describing. I don't even think I'm visualizing what you're describing correctly.
https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/128884630/ 
so it looks like you're trying to set the direction of the bullet after you've cloned it, but that can get problematic to try to track which bullet was meant to go in which direction. Not impossible, but definitely more complicated to do it that way. What I'd suggest doing instead is pointing the bullet in the right direction *before* you create a clone of it. The clone will inherit the properties of the bullet, including direction, when it's created. That way, you don't have to track a "Duel Side" variable. Just point it, clone it, point it the other way, clone it again. Then the clones don't need to worry about anything besides moving forward.
If you want to make platform physics (running and jumping, like in the Mario games), I've got a video tutorial for that: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A2dYbK3uJ5Y&amp;t=487s If you're interested in more general 2D physics, [this Box 2D project](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/86958095/) by griffpatch might be of interest. ;)
holy crap that was fast.
An anagram?
https://www.euroresidentes.com/dibujos_colorear/templates_Halloween/sopa_halloween_ingles.pdf is what i mean
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elastic_collision#Two-dimensional
sure, make a variable called "isClone?" (make sure the variable is for this sprite only), set it to true immediately after the 'green flag is clicked' block. Set it to false immediately after the 'when i start as a clone' block. Once you've done that, you can simply have an if-block check the isClone variable - if it's true, execute the code you want.
Ah, didnt know you could set a variable for just the one sprite! Thanks so much
Yeah local variables are very important to learn when you start learning real code as global variables are rarely used.
That's one major thing that I still haven't quite got the hang of after my transition from Scratch to Java... all of my projects are still littered with global variables because it's the only way I know how to work. Any tips? 
That was pretty good. I think you could help yourself with the AI code if you do roads that they most travel on. Which also helps your play plan their towers better because they know where the enemy will travelling or entering the map. 
If on edge bounce.
If touching wall turn 180
Nice job, but i think the enemies may attack a bit too fast.
You should make it so it only shows the pet animation when mouse is down.
Thanks. ~~dead subreddit ;-;~~
lol
I tried this: When this sprite clicked: if (touching mouse-pointer) then go to mouse-pointer ------------------------------- But is doesn't seems to work, as I still can't drag it - it only moves to where the mouse is at that click.
Maybe try putting that in a repeat forever loop?
A little off-putting, but that's quite the costume! 
Yes, that's absolutely right. The design of Scratch is to always show everything in a single scripting area, whereas Snap promotes abstraction by letting users hide the definition for custom blocks, and by supporting local ("script") variables and blocks that work "for all sprites". In addition you can define anonymous blocks using Snap's "rings". Rings are basically the same as custom blocks, except you can assign them to a variable and use CALL, RUN or FORK to invoke them.
/u/Lupxel I made a alternative, because forever loops that are constant are usually laggy when used with other loops. https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/134221505/ (When FLAG Clicked) Forever [Wait Until &lt;&lt;touching mouse pointer&gt; and &lt;mouse down?&gt;&gt;] [Go to mouse-pointer] It will stop if you move to fast, but I hope I helped!
I need to know the same!!!
Use the backpack. It's at the very bottom of the editor; click it to open it up and then just drag your scripts into it. :) +/u/njr2016 
Source: [GitHub](https://github.com/LLK/scratch-gui/issues/1) edit: I'm mildly shocked I missed this. To be fair the issue was opened before the repository was made public, though :P edit 2: Obviously since this was made in September, things could have changed since the sketch was made. PS, you can keep an eye on their GUI code progress [live here](https://llk.github.io/scratch-gui/) or on the actual repository. 
Let's take everything on the right side... and PUSH it over there!
127 vars... or make your life not painful and use a list
You can't directly read the current sound playing, but you can keep track of it in a variable every time you play a new one. To make that variable advance in the order you want, you can store the order in a list. Create a variable called `current sound` and a list called `playlist` When green flag clicked: delete (all) of playlist add (name of sound 1) to playlist add (name of sound 2) to playlist add (name of sound 3) to playlist when backdrop switches to (backdrop1): stop all sounds set (current sound) to (((current sound) mod (length of playlist)) + 1) play sound (item (current sound) of (playlist)) 
[https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/135195756/](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/135195756/) Note that you can use "Play sound (number)" for the same effect as "Play sound (name)", so the list is not completely necessary, but it helps for code readability.
Glad to be of service!
http://puu.sh/sIYgJ/38d0573361.png Where is the backpack?
So you "found" a game that was created by someone who happens to have your username? I like the game, but you can't suggest your own project to be featured.
You'd need to create a new list to transpose into. Iterate over the first, each time checking if it's not in the second. If it isn't, add it. When done, you can clear the first and copy the second back into the first.
Thanks man, I appreciate it. I was able to work out the audio problems. If you'd like to see it here's my project. It's a simple maze but I was having HUGE trouble with looping the audio. https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/134267300/#player
Actually my username is @-Connection- I found the game by searching my Reddit user name. :P
Ah, I see :D Sorry for the misunderstanding.
Alright, can you post what you are having trouble with?
Variables names don't mean anything. If you make a variables name "Apples" it won't automatically count the apples, you'd have to assign it to something. 