almost every company uses Python just in different amounts
I don't really understand why you sent me all these links to specific lines in these libraries. I know about xlrd/xlwt/openpyxl if you're suggesting that instead of relying on pandas' built-in functions I build my own. Doesn't fix the problem in pandas, which is why I put that disclaimer out there for anyone else who might be trying something similar. I'm going to try to pin down the problem when I have time and submit a pull request if I can find it. 
I'd like to point out that the PyCon staff followed their guidelines as best as I can tell, and I can't find fault with their actions. [Here's their statement](http://pycon.blogspot.com/2013/03/pycon-response-to-inappropriate.html). If you're upset with Adria for what she did, I can understand that. If you're okay with the company(ies) that fired people for hearsay, I could understand that too - but to say you're not going to send anyone to PyCon... Well, I don't understand that at all. The PyCon organizers are essentially innocent bystanders in this. This is a feud between factions within the Python community, nothing more.
Have fun getting shamed on twitter then fired for a DONGLE JOKE.
Unfortunately, logging has too many exposed knobs and levers. So, while each knob &amp; lever is documented, their interactions and relationships are not sufficiently documented. What we really need is a simplified logger. Or a logger for humans. I remember wasting an entire day trying to get logging working when I wanted *both* logging from multiple modules and to add some custom information to my logs. Ugh. I now clearly appreciate why many small projects just go with their own custom logger.
 "the issue was reported to the PyCon 2013 staff and resolved privately." TIL Twitter is a private ticketing system. They should have asked her to A.) Remove the tweet after she recieved an apology or B.) Asked her to leave as well. then ask her to explain what good a Developer Enthusiast is to anyone.
IMHO the only one who should be shamed here is their (ex-)employer.
This is the same person who had this conversation on Twitter: http://twitter.theinfo.org/313930673209618432 Follow between Marx and Richards. I think she might be a little off. Maybe the two people have a history, but playing the race card and then telling him he's White male privileged just sends the alarm bells flying.
And how would you.ever get that reassurance? It could have happened anywhere else...
This is an obvious troll. Please keep this kind of content somewhere else. This issue has been discussed at length on the internet. All facts point to Pycon handling it incredibly reasonably, and this is a disagreement among a bunch of outsiders. I haven't actually seen anyone who attended Pycon who is involved in this drama. 
i talked to one girl at pycon accidentally, it was a frightening experience but luckily I managed to get through the whole situation with my job and reputation in tact. It was in the lunch line so it would have been difficult for her to take a pic of me if I had managed to say something that she could find offensive. Had she been wearing google glass I might not have been so lucky. Next year I'm wearing a hood a mask and a dress so that I can continue to survive in this brave new world of "professional" conference conduct. 
FYI only one of them was fired (not Alex). Yes what she did was very pathetic and nasty. Unfortunately it's a bit of a double standard again (surprise surprise). Just swap the genders involved in this situation, would anything remotely similar have happened? No. Even, the same genders, but imagine another generic conference in a different industry, would it have resulted in someone getting fired? No. But as soon as it's a tech conference, everyone is tuning in to see where and when and how - god forbid - a woman is upset and then shit breaks loose and people will tear their asses open because my god look at all this sexism and harassment... someone said penis and now this woman needs to go to hospital. 
The current employer of Adria Richards seems to be having a tough time with their service today: https://twitter.com/SendGrid/status/314739778958532608 The former employer of the fired man (still unclear whether they were both fired or not, at least one was though) is unrepentant and stands by his decision, without offering any extra justification however.
They weren't ejected. Please point to where in the code it says you can't take pictures.
He apologizes, clarifies, she continues to suggest he's racist and then makes a quip about how easy straight white males have it. Just, wow. 
&gt; If you're upset with Adria for what she did, I can understand that. If you're okay with the company(ies) that fired people for hearsay, I could understand that too - but to say you're not going to send anyone to PyCon... No, I am not upset. I meant what I said. Could I really risk exposing one of my employees to a situation like this? Furthermore, given that there is now precedent for terminating someone's employment for such a matter, what kind of publicity would my company receive for *refusing* to fire an employee similarly accused? The risk is too great to both the employee and the company.
https://twitter.com/adriarichards/status/312265091791847425 She's allowed to make sexual jokes, but not people sitting around her. I'm curious: if I laughed at one of her jokes, would she get me fired?
If you are in the position to send people to PyCon, then you are probably also in the position to not fire someone over something that could be handled constructively and positively. If you remove the fact that someone was fired from this situation, it becomes no big deal. Having your picture posted on Twitter is not that big a deal. Having the organizers talk to you about it and explain that it offended someone is not that big a deal. Nothing about this situation would be particularly bad, and it could have even been constructive, if the guy's employer had not overreacted so badly. Note also that while she posted a picture, Adria did not name the person or his company.
that kind of humor is merely strongly correlated with lousy attitudes towards women, but not such an example in and of itself, so I'm surprised the guys got fired. the girl was completely entitled to tweet about it, however- it's the social equivalent of "people of walmart": one has people wearing matching leopard print suits, the other has grown neckbeards making incredibly embarrassing jokes that give newcomers the sense that PyCon takes place at a 13 year old boy's basement. then again, your portrayal of what the woman did as "harassment", your description of the two scruffy maladepts as "gentlemen" and your completely over the top description of the environment as "hostile" all lead me to believe that you're one of those "Men's Rights" kind of guys that thinks women are ruining all of men's fun strongholds. I don't think PyCon will miss you- good riddance!
Anonymous retaliating? http://pastebin.com/ubmznGhn
He might have to fire his employees were he to send them.
Under the longer version in the [Code of Conduct](https://us.pycon.org/2013/about/code-of-conduct/) The bit I'm referring to is "harassing photography or recording" -- What she did was harassment. Rather than just alerting staff she took a picture of them, posted it on a public forum with negative comments and then it went wild. It seems PyCon staff have also gone on to amend their own rules/regs to further clarify that this behavior is considered harassment as well: [https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct/commit/500a3d25c27065598002f7c999de3fdfb7ab18b1](https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct/commit/500a3d25c27065598002f7c999de3fdfb7ab18b1)
It's also not pycons fault when sexual harassment occurs, but it's common for conventions to get forced to change their policies as a result of the backlash. Standard procedure, no big deal So I think it's fair they be pressured into improving their more general anti-harassment policies regarding public shaming of attendees
PyCon's procedures for dealing with disputes should be changed. Certainly the confidentiality of the parties involved should be respected.
Nobody removed anybody from the event. Are you literate?
Some people hear what they want to hear, if you think everybody is racist then even a chocolate ice cream is offensive.
I wish people would stop attacking SendGrid. This only makes the situation into an even bigger fiasco. I strongly disagree with the way Adria Richards handled this, but I think that at the end of the day she had a point - in a public setting like sitting in a conference, we need to be careful about jokes that might offend someone or make them feel excluded. She should've felt free to speak up about how she felt, but *not* to air her disagreement in public on Twitter. This thing has escalated far past the point of reason. Can we just turn this into a learning experience about how to behave in public in the age of Twitter? Be careful not to make jokes that might offend someone in a crowded room, and don't publicly shame people who do something you dislike. If anything, your outrage should be directed at a company that would fire their employee so suddenly based on a joke that someone tweeted about. I think they're the clearest guilty party in this incident.
my employer uses sendgrid. it seems if they endorse this kind of behavior it is only going to make their service more and more unreliable over time, and if thats the case, we need to find another mail service provider. Anyone have any recommendations?
Thank you. This is, in a nutshell, my concern. 
Didn't EVERYONE involved in this over-react? To the point where they're actually working against their own best interests? I don't question Adriana's right to post whatever she likes on Twitter, as long as it's not libel. But did she really make any progress by dealing with it like this? And the idiots that are now making threats against her aren't exactly working in their best interest either. Do they really stop to think that maybe they'll be the one with the unpopular post/tweet someday? Would they like threats made against them for that? And I doubt very much that the employer of the terminated guy is going to profit by this. It will become known that they overreact without thinking to situations on the basis of "zero tolerance", and guess what? They're going to find their labor options more constricted then they are now; as if it wasn't hard enough to find proven talent. I don't see how anyone comes out ahead on this...
&gt; then again, your portrayal of what the woman did as "harassment", your description of the two scruffy maladepts as "gentlemen" Certainly I would consider it harassment when Adria has made far more overtly sexualised comments on Twitter to others. I also hardly think the term "maladepts" is appropriate - one of the individuals has 3 children.
I'm amazed by the fact that people can be fired based on someones tweets, in the US. Feminism and dick jokes aside, this is insane! Have you no workers rights at all? 
Pycon didn't disclose anything to anyone..
HEY! YOU LEAVE ICE CREAM OUT OF THIS!
If they were ejected, I'd agree. They weren't. ... and yes, I believe she did violate the CoC for what that's worth - which isn't much.
Jesus Christ, that exchange is ludicrous. This woman is mad.
Seriously, I've never understood the big deal about cons anyway. Other than it being some sort of money-wasting prestige perk that is. Would they really get enough out of it that justifies the expense of a plan ticket, much less the risk that they'll misrepresent your organization while out and about and get fired as a result?
&gt; I'm tired of my coding gigs being sausagefests, so I'm doing my part If you're seeking female companionship I expect your employer would prefer you do so *outside* the workplace. If you are not referring to a search for said companionship, then why does the sex of the coder matter so long as they are competent?
geez dude, I thought that my comment was over the top enough that it would not be taken seriously. I guess I was wrong. 
Valid. Pycon also only responds to issues if there are complaints. They aren't the police out looking for people. Nobody reported the photography as inappropriate, so there was no reason to take action.
&gt; No, I am not upset. I meant what I said. Could I really risk exposing one of my employees to a situation like this? Furthermore, given that there is now precedent for terminating someone's employment for such a matter, what kind of publicity would my company receive for refusing to fire an employee similarly accused? The risk is too great to both the employee and the company. By that standard, you must prohibit your employees from interacting with the community at large in any way.
By posting his info on Twitter she kinda shoulda expected him to get fired.
&gt;If anything, your outrage should be directed at a company that would fire their employee so suddenly based on a joke that someone tweeted about. I think they're the clearest villains in this incident. I completely agree. I mean she's a crazy bitch and all, but the company that fires employees based on some random strangers claim is really pretty slimy. It sounds to me like this company was looking to lose some personnel and would use any excuse to do it.
As I explained earlier, could I really risk exposing one of my employees to a situation like this? Furthermore, given that there is now precedent for terminating someone's employment for such a matter, what kind of publicity would my company receive for refusing to fire an employee similarly accused? The risk is too great to both the employee and the company.
Can't disagree with that :P
Half the comments in this thread are equally or more over the top, not to mention the whole topic: "I'm not sending anyone to pycon because I don't want to have to fire them!" , So if you were being sarcastic, it didn't translate in this case. If people looked at this issue in terms of behaviors that are widely agreed to be entirely inappropriate, there'd be no controversy. edit: I'm actually entirely not sure of your stance on the issue. obviously your post is sarcastic, but is it sarcastic in lamenting how sensitive the environment is becoming, or just calling out the OP on unreasonable whining? I can't tell either way.
No one was asked to leave. One guys company overreacted to the situation and this woman gloated. That is all that is controversial in this story.
Are you nuts? Cons are the best place to meet people actually doing shit.
Females can't be sexist.^sarcasm
The way this came out they had to do something. When I first read the story It sounded like two drunk idiots were interrupting a talk with sex jokes. I would have fired them too. Then come to find out a dongle joke? Forking a repo isn't even.... wow.
As I wrote in my original text, there are procedural ways of ensuring that disputes are dealt with fairly. I will also be taking steps to ensure that employees attending conferences are adequately protected from undue negative publicity. Having said that, should one of my employees actually engage in conduct *deserving* of negative publicity, I will be the first to ensure appropriate reparations are made.
Yeah, but if you're actually someone doing shit as you put it, it would seem to be a complete waste of time. And really, does everyone need more "rubbing shoulder with greatness"? What's the real value of that? Whatever... go be great instead and put the price of your plane ticket towards something useful. But whatever... it's human nature to flock to people who demand attention. I've never understood it, but there you go. 
I'm not afraid. I'm sorry you are.
Might I suggest that they require that matters to do with disputes remain private until such time as the organisers have had a chance to look into the claims? This hardly seems unreasonable.
I get all my news from gossip, too!
Eh, they marked the backlash as misogynistic in their first sentence. That automatically turns me off because that is a "I'm thinking for you" term.
"female companionship"??? jesus christ. is that all women are good for to you? in over 15 years as a computing professional I've worked with a woman only twice, and those were both very brief stints. something is very, very wrong here. to pretend that everything's ok and as it should be, or that it's the fault of women, is ridiculously naive. to see these sort of attitudes promulgated in /r/python of all places makes me want to cry. 
Yes and no - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/At-will_employment
This is absurd. You are dealing with developers not Stubenville Football players.
&gt; "female companionship"??? jesus christ. is that all women are good for to you? I suggest you re-read my comment. I was suggesting that fatpollo sees women that way due to his complaints about having to work with what he perceives to be too many males. 
Maybe, and this is a big maybe, you shouldn't base your entire fucking understanding of an event on the knee-jerk reaction of a bunch of angry, militant internet nerds who weren't involved.
I'd say this bitch needs a python... 'nuff said...
&gt;Next year I'm wearing a hood a mask and a dress so that I can continue to survive in this brave new world of "professional" conference conduct. I figured that pretty much made it obvious. my mistake. 
Nah, this was selective amnesia. I did not see a single misogynistic response on news.yc for example. If they want to be taken seriously, they should refrain from sweeping statements like that.
I agree that it was a perfectly tame joke (even more so than her own joke) and that the response was clearly disproportionate. The problem is that there are people who disagree, and those people have been given the loaded gun that is the internet, so a little extra caution all around is prudent.
They live in "omg a woman reported someone for making a dick joke and they got scolded, feminazis have gone out of control!" world. So, I guess whatever world 99% of reddit lives in.
He is probably not serious but he is making a point. PyCon should not invite Adria back JUST because she creates a hostile environment.
&gt; As I wrote in my original text, there are procedural ways of ensuring that disputes are dealt with fairly. Where? &gt; I will also be taking steps to ensure that employees attending conferences are adequately protected from undue negative publicity. That's really the point a lot of people are trying to make - the parties involved in this particular matter didn't think they were doing anything wrong. They were mildly offensive at worst, and are apparently empathetic enough with Adria's situation to have issued an apology on HN, even after having been terminated. &gt; Having said that, should one of my employees actually engage in conduct deserving of negative publicity, I will be the first to ensure appropriate reparations are made. Obviously. Or, to use a more juvenile and perhaps less professionally appropriate word that better represents my thought on the statement, *"duh"*.
...okay. I thought it was clear that my comment was a joke.
I have said way worse at conventions than dongle jokes. I am not worried oh White Knight the women give better than they take at blackhat and defcon.
that's not just a perception, there *are* too many males, and you're projecting the only reason you can think of as to why that might be a problem. there were never that many, but women have been fleeing the field for the past 30 years. *you* are the reason why.
I saw someone on Twitter mention MailGun and apparently Amazon offers the same service for less. I don't use either, so I can't vouch for either of those.
This is probably the most reasoned response I have seen. And if people really think anyone is preventing anyone from going to Pycon over this is gullible. I am just mad for this guy with three kids. Makes me sad.
&gt; The problem is that there are people who disagree And those people's intolerance (and hypocrisy, in this case) should be exposed for what it is.
She didn't name them.
What's the name of the company that fired the guys? I don't want anything to do with them.
thanks, yeah mailgun came to mind first but I honestly dont know much about their reliability. But 3 years ago I didn't know anything about sendgrids either. :P Amazon might be an easy sell since we already use them for other stuff. 
Wow, I did not see that coming when she pulled the black card. This woman just lives to be offended.
That blatant race card abuse. ಠ_ಠ
Yep. If you know the guy, warn him against an imminent divorce.
The person who complained was being hypocritical. But, if a woman seated next to them heard the joke (and plenty of others throughout the conference, I'm sure) and later complained about the atmosphere at PyCon without specifically identifying and shaming anyone, she'd have a point. Anecdotally, I know of a couple women at PyCon who were frequently and very awkwardly hit on. They weren't comfortable with it, and it detracted from their conference experience. I think that's a valid concern.
are you aware that you seem completely unhinged at this point?
The only tweets she didn't delete were the ridiculous uneducated misogynist ones. There's a reason for that. The ones with a point and logic were deleted.
adriarichards Adria Richards @smarx Straight White Male: The Lowest Difficulty Setting There Is by @scalzi whatever.scalzi.com/2012/05/15/str… ---- http://twitter.theinfo.org/313930673209618432 ---- http://imgur.com/7XGY8wB ---- WOWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW.... Adria Richards ‏@adriarichards Black people CANNOT be racist against White people. Racism is a position of the oppressor who has the power https://twitter.com/adriarichards/status/6039856858 ---- This lady is delusional hypocrite. Feel so bad for the two guys who got fired... EDIT: See the last one about racism? I can pinpoint her type exactly now.. those two guys never saw the crazy coming.
ha, well I'm getting downmodded like a thousand kintergardeners upset at eating their greens, so maybe its an age thing ? dunno.
Well, *I* for one have an agenda. But it's hidden. YOU'LL NEVER FIND IT.
She posted their picture on the internet, with some nametags visible. May as well have named them.
The community does not need to be policed. We're all thick skinned nerds who enjoy a good laugh. This type of shit makes the social environment of tech conferences toxic. People will be afraid to say anything, I don't know why PSF has such a horribly strict policy in the first place.
[Aaaand she's been fired.](https://www.facebook.com/SendGrid/posts/10151502570463967)
so don't sink to their level?
guiqwt looked really nice to me, but it is based on pyqwt, which is currently unmaintained (the original pyqwt maintainer is now suggesting pyqtgraph instead). They were looking at switching out their graphics backend for something else, but it doesn't look like much work has been done there yet. 
It may be worthwhile employing a little skepticism here. Given that there have apparently been efforts to disrupt SendGrid's services, are we entirely sure their FaceBook account has not been compromised? At the time of writing, this statement has only been up for 4 minutes.
Adria Richards just got fired. I wonder if the others will get their jobs back
[YOU LEAVE BARBIE OUT OF THIS!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&amp;v=P7yJ61Z398E#t=105s)
&gt; It sounds to me like this company was looking to lose some personnel and would use any excuse to do it. Basically this. Would this have happened if she decided to keep the two alleged offenders identities anonymous? She can make a point without having to fuck people over.
Dude, your sarcasm detector has a serious bug.
It means sales person and she gets to label herself a nerd.
I've used two packages called XLRD and XLWT, available [here](http://www.python-excel.org/).
Like posting their pic wasnt enough?
jesus christ what a bigot. this sounds awfully similar to something else you've said on reddit: &gt; It is time for even the most politically correct of Europe's citizens to acknowledge that their culture is fundamentally incompatible with Islam, and to expel Muslims from their countries or risk further destabilisation. it seems like anytime you see conflict between a privileged and underprivileged group, your final solution is to just eradicate the underprivileged group from the environment. you know this doesn't work, don't you? 
One guy's name tag was visible but blurry to the point where you could only identify his first name. It also wasn't the guy who got fired. That's not naming.
In some at will states, giving or denying a reason for dismissal allows the employer to be taken to court for wrongful dismissal - giving no reason is always an acceptable reason. I wouldn't be surprised if you *never* hear this company confirm (edit: or deny) that this is why he was terminated.
so there is a god after all.
[She got fired too](https://twitter.com/SendGrid/status/314768776577036288)
yes sure its "sarcastic", but it seems to be supporting the original poster, with whom I disagree, and maybe that's the part I'm not seeing. The level of downmods I'm getting would suggest others are interpreting the statement as in support of the original poster (with whom they agree) as well.
She's like a real life version of portlandia.
Well it's not like she was able to handle it in person, like normal non-socially-retarded, humans usually do. Twitter groweth thee large cajones.
no it is probably a maturity thing. :) i was baiting for down votes and I got the opposite. I thought I had this sub reddit figured out. FTR: yes I did accidentally talk to a girl, no i wasn't scared at the time but after the fact I was dreaming up ways it could have possibly gone wrong. starting with the vaguely phallic shape of the pasta which was not my fault, but I did mention how much I use to enjoy it in high school. So perhaps next year pycon could consider more gender neutral foods to avoid dangerous conversations like this. &lt;---- this part is sarcasm
I think this is another douchy employer trying to distance themselves from this whole thing, but at least she has an indicator now that her decisions have consequences. I don't think this is necessarily the right response, but I'm not sure really what is. 
At-will employment. This smells more like a case that the company was looking to "trim" anyone, or particularly employees they don't like. Employees in the US have very little to no protection. Of course, this is construed as freedom here. Freedom to leave and enter a new job "at-will."
Are we certain their Twitter and Facebook have not been compromised?
Everybody please read Adria's post on her blog, one of the gentlemen's post on Hacker News, and Adria's reply to that post on Hacker news. What really irks me about the follow up is that this event is a catalyst to discuss MANY interesting and valid questions, which are all buried under BS like this: &gt; Purely on the basis of her say-so These guys weren't fired on "her say-so". They were fired by their employers for acting unprofessional while representing the company. If you read her reply to the HN post, she thinks that was an overreaction. &gt; because they allegedly told a joke In the HN post, the guy admitted telling the joke, and I'm sure the conference organizers went over that before he left voluntarily. &gt;during a private conversation The conversation occurred in the middle of the audience. &gt; that she construed as sexual in nature The dongle joke was sexual in nature. The HN post indicates the fork-repo joke wasn't. &gt; Adria's intention to create a hostile environment for other developers at PyCon Her intentions are to make a *less* hostile environment for young women hoping to become programmers, as stated on her blog. Did her actions really further that goal, or were they counterproductive? Is the community going to change without activism, which will unavoidably be met with push back? These are examples of really interesting questions that we SHOULD be discussing instead of validating this drivel. edit: well gee, thanks! edit 2: links. - Adria's [blog post](http://butyoureagirl.com/14015/forking-and-dongle-jokes-dont-belong-at-tech-conferences/). - Mr-Hank's [HN comment](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5398681). - Adria's [reply](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5399047). 
Person not scolded. Person got fired.
Amazon doesn't really offer the same service though. SendGrid has an amazing API. Besides, who's to say that MailGun isn't also vulnerable to a DDOS attack?
I still have no idea who they are, and I've seen the pic, so it's not naming. No need to be disingenuous. She didn't name anyone.
&gt; I did not see a single misogynistic response The first comment when I opened Richard's blog post yesterday read &gt; I will express my opinion in a way that feminists like you understand: you deserve to be raped. (from memory, as the blog is down atm, but it's pretty close). Discussions like these really bring out the most unsavory parts of the online world... The PyCon organisers seem to have handled it very well on their part (not enthousiastic about the other parties involved), I hope people like Jesse Noller do not take this to hard... ([here](https://www.gittip.com/jnoller/) is his Gittip-account btw.).
She lost her job too. &gt;Effective immediately, SendGrid has terminated the employment of Adria Richards. While we generally are sensitive and confidential with respect to employee matters, the situation has taken on a public nature. We have taken action that we believe is in the overall best interests of SendGrid, its employees, and our customers. As we continue to process the vast amount of information, we will post something more comprehensive. https://www.facebook.com/SendGrid 
I think yes, you could. I feel like given this same situation, you may have asked the guys what happened or even looked at the crazy persons twitter history and realized that there's nothing worth firing over.
I'm talking about what happened at PyCon, not the aftermath.
Guys, I'm as dismayed as anyone that a picture to Twitter can assign (for the life of Google's cache) a badge of shame and get someone fired. It scares me. If I say "sucks" (which has sexual overtones) at a conference, is my face all over Twitter with an accusation of sexism? Having said that, this has gone too far. SendGrid is down. People are saying terrible things about this woman. She's a bully, yes, and obviously something of a histrionic. But for fuck's sake, if you go around DDOS'ing her employer's website, calling her names, all this other stuff... That just plays into her narrative. Enough already.
I don't know who Richard is. Oh, you meant Richards. Sure, what's your point? Oh, you only want to focus on specific responses because that makes your point. Carry on then.
Sendgrid announces her termination. https://www.facebook.com/SendGrid/posts/1015150257046396
it's the little things -- magnified by a severe power imbalance -- that add up to a toxic environment that no woman wants to step foot in. it's a mistake to think it's just about sexual assault. it's about being inundated, day in and day out, with subtle behavior that makes one feel unwelcome and outcast in so many ways. and if you speak up about any of it and happen to be a woman you will be buried in a mountain of shit. the developers don't even know they're doing it; in fact, they think everything is cool because they haven't raped anybody. most of the time they don't even see how their behaviors and assumptions are harmful. if someone complains, that challenges their own self-perception, and so they nitpick and shit all over the messenger in order to preserve their own self-esteem. after all, why should anyone get fired over a harmless little dongle joke? it's human nature. it's a catch-22, because it's impossible to learn these things without women in the workplace, and it's impossible to get women in the workplace until developers catch on. 
Welcome to Reddit, dude
yeah well this is the thing, behavioral norms change, and that includes for me as well. I've gone through many stages of, "this kind of thing you used to say all the time is actually not cool anymore", and I am now used to it. But for lots of kids and more than a few older but still macho types coming to Pycon, this whole "you sometimes need to adjust to new behavioral norms" thing is tough to swallow. So I know its hard, kids, just downmod me all you like, if it makes you feel better. Because you're still going to have to learn how to make an environment like Pycon more welcoming to newcomers, or you're not going to be coming (this was the *friendliest* pycon of all, too, thanks to the CoC).
This just makes it worse really. No one should have lost employment over any of this crap. The DDoS was going to put them out of business though. That is the only reason this is happening.
I don't think there is any blame for PyCon organizers here - although I agree that she also broke the code of conduct. I would even say that all of this is irrevelant - the real issue is that if you send your employees to a big event like this, a shitstorm might happen because an overzealous idiot of any kind can try to prove something to legitimize their agenda - be it of any kind. British Ruby conference got canceled because ... the didn't had black speakers, i mean... WTF?! That kind of situations DO create hostile environment for everyone, and that post was just a rant about it. I'm sure the OP will attend PyCon next year, it was only over the top rant. But I can tell you that I agree with it. Lets not get crazy over this, you have the right to disagree, you also as a grownup have the right to be offended by something/someone. Thats the part of being and adult. Clearly nowdays you have to be sure not to accidently offend someone because it will end up with your termination. Overall this only did disservice to women in general because next time people will think twice to hire a girl because she "might get irrational" - and thats the opinion of a few woman that I asked about this. So there you go.
At first I thought the people making the jokes were presenters. The series of events reminds me of when a Hoss Gifford got sexual at the Minneapolis FlashBelt conference in 2009 (edit: while giving a keynote). A woman, justifiably, wrote a blog post slamming Hoss which got picked up by national media. The presentation was not approved by my friend (Dave) who organized the conference and built up an entire community. Quickly a lynch mob formed there were calls to all the sponsors to drop funding. Despite having the original blogger issue a joint statement with Dave the damage was already done. Original blog post here: http://blogs.citypages.com/blotter/2009/06/minneapolis_fla.php ... Sensationalized article here: http://blogs.citypages.com/blotter/2009/06/minneapolis_fla.php
You actually do have a degree of assurance now: https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct/commit/500a3d25c27065598002f7c999de3fdfb7ab18b1 I have seen no evidence that anyone called for that guy to be fired. Lots of people have called for Adria to be fired, but the employer that fired the guy did so on their own. Some other guy was ejected from the conference, for what appears to be worse things than this case, and he's publicly outed himself on his blog, and no one is calling for him to be fired.
Maybe your employees need to learn not to say stupid shit in public?
Thank you. That's helpful to know.
&gt; Clearly nowdays you have to be sure not to accidently offend someone because it will end up with your termination. OK see that is *exactly* the point I originally made, with the -20 and counting downvotes. As I said - do you have a problem "accidentally" using the N word or groping people? Why not ? How can you be sure you're in control of your actions ? The issue is, people are upset that making loud and stupid dick jokes in a public space is being relegated to the heap of "things that are not acceptable", and its even upsetting you. But that's the difference between a fratty boys club and an inclusive environment. I'm all for people who think they can't abide by the CoC just not showing up - this year was already friendlier. 
This is yet another example of how social media can be bad. You think that if you make a statement online it doesn't have significant real-world consequences, but now two people have lost their jobs and there's factions forming in the python community over a dick joke. Let's please try to remember that this does not represent python community as a whole, but rather 3 individuals and then the internet's torch-and-pitchfork response to a tweet. The issues need to be quickly resolved and then we should move on. We're better than this.
I've been a developer for 30 years - and it seems like there's fewer women in the field every year. And with such a small number of women, and so many young guys the conversations can often get inappropriate and uncomfortable for the few women there. So, I'm very sensitive to a need to keep things cleaner than many guys would prefer. But Aria is clearly throwing bombs around to get attention and win arguments. In her case the bombs are accusations of socially taboo conduct - that get strong enough reactions that people don't even bother to question the accusation: the accused is simply guilty. What's next? Accusing someone of pediphilia? She needs to be censored.
Uh, well, the guy who *was* fired did have his face in the picture, soooo..., maybe "naming" isn't the word, but she certainly publicly outed them in a very unprofessional manner. (And a manner that broke Pycon's rules)
&gt; Indeed, that was unnecessary. Unfortunately it's just a given these days when you do something that a sufficiently large group of ~~people~~ dudes dislike. interesting that you don't see this sort of response when a *woman* gets fired for behaving inappropriately.
Agreed. The only justice needed is the guy who got fired getting his job back. This is just a witch hunt. 
agreed it was very welcoming. and as always I missed your talk on sqla. :( and I can't say enough about how awesome the sprints were/are. I could only stay for 2 days. can't wait for next year. 
&gt; interesting that you don't see this sort of response when a woman gets fired for behaving inappropriately You imply that his termination was justified. Clearly, that was not the case.
We don't really know anything yet. This could have been about how she handled internal criticism about her behavior, for example if they asked her to make a public apology and she responded inappropriately.
iconoklast is making fun of you, FYI. The joke, as I understand it, is that only an idiot boss would knee-jerk react that way to the situation, and your post here makes you look like an 'idiot boss'.
If you get a sad from a dongle joke. That's pretty hard to take seriously after seeing what she just did to this guy. I have worked in many places and I (White Guy) feel like women are pretty welcome everywhere it isn't perfect but the least misogynistic environment I have seen outside of a Vegan Animal Sanctuary or something. I am a white guy so I know it doesn't mean much but that's what I see. I do know this guy was screwed over.
Given the incredibly low bar you are apparently prepared to set for "stupid shit" it's hardly surprising that this has been as much of a mess as it has.
Yeah exactly. Just because you're offended doesn't mean you're *right*.
Playhaven fired one of the devs. http://blog.playhaven.com/addressing-pycon/
&gt;No one should have lost employment over any of this crap. That woman was a tech evangelist. Of course she had to be fired.
I wasn't happy with the talk, and neither was one of PG's lead committers in the audience :). my tutorial was much better, video for that should be up at some point.
video is corrupted. :( about the 3min mark.
Telling off-color jokes and speaking while others are trying to listen to the presenters is douchebag behavior. If your employees do that, maybe they shouldn't be at cons.
i'll be watching out for it. 
*shrugs* Sometimes technical people don't see the legal, administrative and publicity ramifications of their positions. Sometimes management doesn't see the technical ramifications of their policies or decisions. I think we have teams that work well together and are at least able to step into each others' shoes when conflicts due to differing perspectives arise. Public pressure can sometimes force a company's hand when it comes to their employees. If we are prepared to set the bar for employee termination so low as to accept Adria's behaviour as both appropriate and commendable, then the risk profile of attending public events has changed significantly. This is hardly a knee-jerk reaction.
https://twitter.com/adriarichards/statuses/6039856858
You should fix that unclosed s tag
&gt; I did not see **a single** misogynistic response on news.yc for example. (emphasis added) &gt; Oh, you only want to focus on specific responses because that makes your point. ... (Granted, that one wasn't from HN.) [Edit: Emphasis, formatting.]
Many states have at-will employment, which means you can be fired for any reason (excluding things like racist and sexist reasons) at any time.
I vote Adria should lose her job. Listening in on a private conversation and then harrassing them publically about it is digusting and low. If you're going to bitch, moan, and make shit up like Oracle does, you don't belong in an educated community like this. (Referring to falsified performance information published to slander IBM)
No, it's merely rude. Everybody does this occasionally, and it is seldom intentional.
Also: https://twitter.com/adriarichards/status/313946261055221760 &gt;Adria Richards ‏@adriarichards 19 Mar &gt;@smarx Straight White Male: The Lowest Difficulty Setting There Is by @scalzi http://whatever.scalzi.com/2012/05/15/straight-white-male-the-lowest-difficulty-setting-there-is/ …
Short answer: yes.
Let me quote you from the article: &gt; cost an attendee his job and spurred a misogynist online backlash Let us rephrase: &gt; Only two things happened: an attendee lost his job and there was a misogynist online backlash. There was absolutely no accounting for the entirely reasoned and civil discussion on news.yc which was where I first heard of it. Now, let us go back to my original comment: &gt; Eh, they marked the backlash as misogynistic in their first sentence. That automatically turns me off because that is a "I'm thinking for you" term. Clearly, the backlash was not ALL misogynistic. And it was irresponsible of them to say so. I hope this clarifies my position for you.
Let me quote you from the article: &gt; cost an attendee his job and spurred a misogynist online backlash Let us rephrase: &gt; Only two things happened: an attendee lost his job and there was a misogynist online backlash. There was absolutely no accounting for the entirely reasoned and civil discussion on news.yc which was where I first heard of it. Now, let us go back to my original comment: &gt; Eh, they marked the backlash as misogynistic in their first sentence. That automatically turns me off because that is a "I'm thinking for you" term. Clearly, the backlash was not ALL misogynistic. And it was irresponsible of them to say so. I hope this clarifies my position for you.
I was addressing the others reading this exchange more than yourself, but fair enough.
With enough preparation, virtually anyone is vulnerable to a DDOS. That's why it's so effective.
I can confirm this. The one time I was fired, I got no reason why I was let go. It was just "it's not working out, bye."
It's just a shame that this is an employer who may have employees that would be great to have at the conference. This is just another example of how kneejerk reactions end up being harmful.
"Effective immediately, SendGrid has terminated the employment of Adria Richards. While we generally are sensitive and confidential with respect to employee matters, the situation has taken on a public nature. We have taken action that we believe is in the overall best interests of SendGrid, its employees, and our customers. As we continue to process the vast amount of information, we will post something more comprehensive." Source: https://www.facebook.com/SendGrid/posts/10151502570463967
I... wow. People actually think this way? Excuse me while I hate the world for a while...
Usually people remap a lot of things or just use Dvorak in insert mode and Qwerty in normal. As for using alternative keyboard layouts in programming, I absolutely **love** [Workman for Programmers](http://viralintrospection.wordpress.com/2010/09/06/a-different-philosophy-in-designing-keyboard-layouts/). You press 9 and 0 — you get (). You press Shift+9 and Shift+0 — you get 90. It's a huge relief for programmer. And it works this way with the whole numbers row.
doesn't seem so clear to me. computing conferences have developed a very, *very* bad reputation. PyCon has done a great job of trying to buck that trend, but apparently these dudes didn't get the message. with such a lack of sensitivity to the situation, they never should've been let out in public.
No idea why you were downvoted, this is a very reasonable comment.
Really? You just... accidentally say stuff huh? Interesting. 
this is the problem in a nutshell. you find it "hard to take seriously" because you can't empathize with being a woman in a boy's club. I can believe that you want women to feel welcome. but it takes more than wanting that. it's not as easy as you think to reshape your environment in ways you've *never* had to think about or deal with.
[Anyone that gets offended by something like this needs to watch this. ](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zqPcjm-X5GQ) If you're talking to someone and they say their offended by something you've said, show them this clip. 
Yeah, what's really hard is to make an API that's robust. You can make a static website robust with a fat pipe and a web server that doesn't let clients keep sockets open. But an API has to connect to backend, often interpreted, scripts. Making that robust is really difficult. I mean just authenticating an API request usually results in some intentionally expensive hashing. And if the authentication fails, you want to delay the response to prevent brute forcing. That alone is a hacker's DDOS dream.
I don't think it is. Small business revolves around appearance. If enough people don't like what you do, a boycott will guarantee a loss of business. If his employees were to be placed under that kind of exposure, it could very well sink a small company. It is not idiotic. And yes, it is difficult to protect employees from this, and it could happen out in public. That isn't the point OP was trying to make.
I was initially going to address the content of your reply, but I see you're here from ShitRedditSays. I doubt further conversation will prove productive.
Sooo... You're not sending them to pycon, because someone might post what they say on twitter, causing a shitstorm which will cause you to fire your own employees? How about you send them to pycon, and when someone posts their picture on twitter, don't fire them. PyCon didn't fire them. From what I've gathered, they didn't even kick them out of the conference. 
Fair enough, I was just trying to accomplish this piece within the same script as it does other things to. Was trying to avoid having to split things out, but I guess I could just call the powershell script FROM python using subprocess...
context matters.
she was just fired. good times
these bombs need to be thrown. you seem to have good intentions but nothing is going to change for the better if all we do is focus on nitpicking Adria.
Wow... First off, who the hell goes to industry conventions anyway? Is there *anything* you learn at a con that you couldn't learn after an evening on the internet? I guess if you're trying to trick your employer into buying you a mini-vacation and paying for your drinks for a few nights... Secondly... well this is the internet and things have a way of staying around forever, so I'm keeping my mouth shut. I think we'll have a lot of growing pains in the future as the traditionally male industry gets more women involved. This just reminds me how glad I am that I have a job with so little interaction with modern young people. If I had been one of those guys who's picture was taken... I probably would have said many other things that would not have improved the situation. Good luck in the future kids! Sometimes I'm glad I'm old!
Get your own convention with hookers and blackjack!
[openpyxl](http://pythonhosted.org/openpyxl/#) works well. I recently built a script that pulls info from the web and puts it into excel so if you have questions I might be able to help. 
You don't seem to have any trouble accidentally *typing* stuff that happens to be rude. Perhaps you shouldn't be on the Internet, but I wouldn't want to see you lose your job over it.
&gt;I mean it would be nice if we could create a welcoming space for everyone I mean it would be nice if we could create a welcoming space for **reasonable** people.
Buahahahaha. Good times.
Conventions are for people who want to get the information first and right. Sure, you can get it from a blogger that was there, but that just adds another person in the telephone game. Also not every company treats this as a vacation. My company expected me to learn something and teach it to everyone else. My coworker didn't learn anything, being too busy playing with his phone. It was one of the reasons why he was fired.
Many states also exempt "computer-related" jobs from overtime and other protections.
I believe that's actually a federal law, so it's all states.
Its SRS in real life..
I agree with you there -- except about the HN discussion. It's been several hours since I read it, but I thought a good chunk of it was bullshit, however civilly phrased.
I had to check the date to make sure it wasn't tweeted today, in which case I'd assume her account was compromised. Holy shit. That's fucking awful.
&gt; This is so stupid argument that I'm having a hard time to make a meaningful reply. its an argument that is spot on. Decades ago, these behaviors were commonplace - someone called out for them might not even understand he did something wrong - an accident. Now, they're unacceptable. Same for loud dick jokes at a conference - these behaviors are only beginning to be recognized as unacceptable. If you can't see these as points along the same trend then maybe you aren't looking hard enough.
Ridiculous. I hope when this blows over, both of them are rehired.
Thanks for the precisions. Also, I had meant to check what common law really meant for a while, so thanks for the reminder. Another country having different law is easily conceivable, but having the law work in different way is a little mind twisting at first.
and I see you're from MensRights. do you even python?
haha, I do sometimes accidentally type stuff! 1) I don't think anyone should have lost a job over this stupid crap. 2) Off-color jokes and speaking during others' presentations is, as you say, rude and imo is indicative that they're the douchebag con attendees who stayed out drinking all night and look at cons as merely paid vacations -- they need to just stay home while the adults are at the con (if they're not, my apologies, but that type of con attendee is a big pet peeve of mine and imo tend to ruin the things for everyone). 3) The woman who started all this is probably a douchebag too (i.e. blasting out this shit on social media instead of handling it professionally). 4) If you fear your employees would accidentally get caught up in such a situation, it makes me wonder what type of atmosphere you have at work. Are these jokes and whatnot tolerated? Would you not discipline an employee who behaved that way in front of visiting clients? If not, why not?
Haha, there is no way that is real. I wish it was, but no employer is that stupid.
In most states, and definitely Colorado (which I'm from), you can be fired for any reason or no reason, excepting discrimination based on a protected category. Protected categories are things like race, religion, sexual orientation, etc. And your employer doesn't have to offer a reason at all. You can fire someone simply because you don't like them.
&gt; Overall this only did disservice to women in general because next time people will think twice to hire a girl because she "might get irrational" denying someone employment because she is female is also illegal (this pesky law called "the Civil Rights Act"), so no worries with this one. isn't the law great ?
Most of what I tried includes initializing the connection, binding it and then I know how to delete a DN, but I'm not sure how to GET the dn. I've been using this as reference: http://www.grotan.com/ldap/python-ldap-samples.html#delete
According to FB, Sendgrid fired her, too. https://www.facebook.com/SendGrid/posts/10151502570463967 Not sure if real or 4chan
No need to offer a reason ? Discrimination lawsuits must be hard to rule.
No because its bullshit - and you should understand that real life doesnt work like this.
&gt; Sendgrid does not agree either, and now we have 2 people fired over a really stupid thing. they're idiots and I think a lawsuit is a very likely thing in their case (also I don't think the original firing was warranted either). 
&gt; Just because you thin something is valid doesnt necessarly make it so. you are absolutely correct. Walking around using the "N" word all day might be absolutely fine, who's to say? I grew up in a pretty racist environment, it was certainly fine back then. Somehow I don't think this word is making a comeback in common conversation, though (sarcasm! am I doing it right?)
As a female developer I think this it is horrible of her to have done this, and a complete overreaction. I don't want a team to have to worry about censoring themselves because a few female developers show up. If they were directed at someone, or even if it were a continual thing that she had pointed out and they had continued to make inappropriate comments just to spite her that's one thing, but this was a private joke made by people she didn't even know! I admit I'm not that sensitive to these kinds of jokes. They're whatever to me. I actually sometimes feel bad when I see someone censoring themselves in front of me. I've been the only girl on teams of all guys since I graduated, and I've had no problems whatsoever. In fact just the opposite, I've always had fun and find being a girl programmer is awesome! Adria seems to want attention, and unfortunately that comes at the expense of other people. It's really sad that they lost their jobs over this.
For small businesses, yes, it is very hard to prove discrimination. Unless an employer is blatant about it, he probably can get away with a certain amount of unfair discrimination. For larger businesses, you can subpoena records that show a trend in hiring and firing. Also bigger companies that have professional HR departments usually don't allow supervisors to fire employees without cause or a given number of warnings about bad behavior. It isn't that the government mandates that policy, it's just considered good protocol in corporate America.
Have you ever been in a hiring/firing position? You need to worry about getting sued *big time*. Gender discrimination, age discrimination, all kinds. Or are you saying the civil rights act exists to deal with imaginary issues ?
Conventions are where experts can share new information and techniques with other experts. These are extremely important to technological advancment. You really sound uninformed, uneducated, and do not belong on this sub reddit. Good bye sir.
No you are just proving that you didnt understand the point i was making at all. This discussion is a waste of our time on both sides.
Yes, i was - but thanfully my country is normal.
This actually turned me into support of at-will employment. Otherwise she would claim she was fired for sexism/racism, and win. Doesn't matter that she's the one who is sexist and racist: Sources: https://twitter.com/adriarichards/statuses/6039856858 https://twitter.com/adriarichards/status/313946261055221760
I love this quote and I love Stephen Fry. 
I really like this comment. So many are rushing to defend the "right" of these two to make sexual jokes in public while completing ignoring the opportunity for rational dialogue. While many don't like to discuss it, there is a huge gender imbalance in the tech world. I don't think I would have been offended by these jokes, but the fact of the matter is that the jokers could feel safe telling sexual jokes in a male dominated space. I wonder if they would have been telling the same jokes if they knew over half the audience members were women. This whole situation reeks of people defending the status quo instead of taking the opportunity to break barriers. Here a link to Adria's blog for those interested: http://butyoureagirl.com/14015/forking-and-dongle-jokes-dont-belong-at-tech-conferences/
I haven't seen anything coming from real members of the Python community. This all seems to be from outsiders coming in and supporting their agendas in our community.
You could look at Pandas. i've been using is alot over the last couple of weeks. It allows you load from excel/csv/text and automatically parse to columns. You can then easily manipulate large datasets, then saving to excel You will need XLRD/XLWT packages to write to excel format.
Nitpicking Adria? I think you don't have a clear understanding of the situation.
The point you seemed to make was, "oh no, now I have to worry something I say, something which seems like no big deal at all to me, might not be acceptable and might have repercussions!". That point?
I'll be forwarding that post to your boss.
[Since PyCon is changing its code of conduct](https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct/commit/500a3d25c27065598002f7c999de3fdfb7ab18b1) I guess you'll send people now?
Everyone is overreacting. Everyone is wrong. Everyone is behaving like a child. Everyone got fucked up in the end. And we didn't learn jack shit from this. If anything it only made people take sides and create an even bigger divide between two lines of thought. Fucking A, world. Fucking A.
The article about the difficulty setting ? Nothing racist or sexist in there. You should read it, it's quite interesting.
Or her past comments that have been brought to light: &gt; Black people CANNOT be racist against White people. Racism is a position of the oppressor who has the power &gt; - Adria Richards, Twitter, Nov 24, 2009 [Source](https://twitter.com/adriarichards/statuses/6039856858)
How is this funny? This is real life, kid.
Nope, not at all, if i ever go to pycon US/CA i might explain to you when we have a beer ;)
I can't get on board with this practice of seeing sexism in everything. There are things WAY more important for feminists to get their panties in a twist about. Like the fact that it's 20-fucking-13 and the idea that a woman can do whatever the hell she pleases about her reproduction is still considered heretical by any but the most left-field fringe groups. Or that to save money, some towns in America have repealed laws against domestic abuse. Or Steubenville. FUCKING STEUBENVILLE. This kind of bullshit is why the feminist movement's got such a bad reputation. I'm sick of people raising hell over imaginary problems because they're too self-absorbed to see the real ones. The way I see it, you should learn Python and attend these conventions because you enjoy them, and not give a damn what kind of stupid shit other people say. 
My only problem with the way pycon behaved is that they didn't do anything about her taking three pics of the two without permission - since that's against the code of conduct.
You don't "vent" (Twitter shame) with someones picture at the damn conference. 
Truer words were never spoken! Have an upvote.
&gt; Let's please try to remember that this does not represent python community as a whole, But PSF and PyCon organizers though do (at least that is their purpose more or less). So far they have been neutral. Now it is time not to be neutral. It is time for an apology. If Adria Richards is coming to PyCon next year, then I am staying home. I wouldn't feel safe there.
lol, professionalism
When you get publicly humiliated for making a dongle joke. Maybe things have gone too far.
Did you read it? It was funny. 
I would suggest you try a local user group. The python.org site has a list which is probably reasonably up to date: http://wiki.python.org/moin/LocalUserGroups
an unemployed social media troll? sounds about right.
Yap. Employment at will baby. Sold to you when you sign the contract as "WOW, look you can leave anyyyyytime!". It is translated as "HOLY SHIT, we can fire anyone, anytime, for any reason". Yes, racism, bigotry, sexual orientation, all play into that (officially those are not allowed, but if any reason is allowed then it is usually substituted with "restructuring", "culture reorganization" etc.)
If I were the Playhaven dev, I wouldn't want to go back and work for a company so quick to throw me under the bus. If I were Adria situation, I wouldn't have a problem going back.
&gt; The conversation occurred in the middle of the audience. That doesn't mean it wasn't "private". If you can overhear a conversation it doesn't mean that conversation isn't "private".
How did PyCon do anything wrong here? Someone (Adria) raised an issue. The staff talked to all parties about the Code of Conduct and let them resume the conference. What happened when they got back to their real jobs has nothing to do with PyCon's staff. Yes it's a shame, but you can't fault them for it.
The reason she was fired was because she's PR for send grid and she was giving them a bad image by being a total bitch on their behalf. That's grounds for firing for any PR employee and its not the first time it's happened. 
In Italy and the UK it can be a criminal matter. 
what errors?
It looks like a lot of people here would. The only thing holding you back is just posting what you're thinking of doing or what level of skill you think you have or are looking for so you know who to take seriously and people know if its something they could be useful on. 
This will only be effective if you contact PyCon organizers and let them know directly how you feel, why you feel the way you do, and how many attendees (and how much revenue) they will be missing out on because they decided to administer their Code of Conduct in an unequal, unfair, prefferential manor.
If you like to have sexy-time with a girl you better sign a contract or else things happen like with Assange. Maybe there is as well a contract needed before communication what kind of humour is accepted for the next few minutes.
&gt; The PyCon organizers are essentially innocent bystanders in this. Nope, not anymore. They are implicitly condoning one behavior over the others. What Adria Richards did was create a hostile environment. You go to PyCon some take your pictures and then posts it on twitter with a nasty label underneath because they didn't like the way you looked. Fuck that shit. I am staying home, unless they publicly apologize instead of making a small Github edit to their rules. The strive of PyCon (and correct me if I am wrong here) is to create a safe and tolerant environment -- what Adria did was to create the exact opposite of that. What I am talking about here is not reporting of the issue per-se to organizers but public pictures and public name calling. That is not acceptable.
No but Adria should have been.
&gt; By that standard, you must prohibit your employees from interacting with the community at large in any way. You should unless that community is sensitive to protecting the privacy of those employees, respecting them and making it a safe environment. Condoning the actions (and they did implicitly) of what she did, doesn't create that environment. So CruftRemover's sentiment is shared here as well.
the thing is, harassment photography was always on the code of conduct. From https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct/blob/master/code_of_conduct.md - "Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, **harassing photography or recording**, sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention." (emphasis is mine) 
From now on when I do stupid shit I'll just issue apologies via Github commits. "Broke wife's favorite vase" git commit [33fa0b] "sorry honey, from now on, we'll put the vases on lower shelves only"
Ah, so they changed the rules.
2 hours now, by that measure at least it's looking more solid.
I am sure she feels offended. 
I've never heard of that and I had to reply. I'm a big fan of discomfort sitcoms (a-la The Office) and I just burst into laughter tears when I read about that. Especially him drawing the cock _three_ times. Lulz. I would actually pay to see that. Am I a bad person?
The PyCon rules for NEXT YEAR were just modified to clearly discourage public naming and shaming. This year's code of conduct made no mention of such behavior (unless you think it falls within the general requset for polite, respectful, and professional behavior). Also, she could not have been ejected with them. Because they were not ejected. The PyCon staff politely explained that this had been inappropriate, the individuals agreed, and that was the END OF THE MATTER as far as PyCon was concerned. The fact that the employers of ALL individuals have now apparently chosen to fire them is really, truly not PyCon's fault.
You make a fair point about people looking at conventions as paid vacation time. I can see how the casual attitude would irk some people. To answer your questions, the people I have hired know when to be serious and when they can horse around. There's often an adjustment period after they're first hired of course. Generally speaking, people at the company aren't just co-workers; they're friends. People are just that much more productive when they can *enjoy* solving a problem. Additionally, I may be the head of the company, but I make sure to join the engineers at least once a week to do some "actual work". It makes them feel more valued, and I have enough experience to actually help solve some of the trickier problems. Plus of course, I enjoy it, even if it's just for 4 to 5 hours on a Wednesday. Regarding tolerance of the potentially offensive... without going into extended detail about our hiring practices, we try to find people who understand that being offended is subjective and thus, while they *should* approach management in the event somebody is making their life difficult, simply "being offended" will not be regarded as sufficient cause for disciplinary action. Would I discipline an employee who make penis and testicle jokes in front of a visiting client? Yes. But then those with such a propensity probably wouldn't be in the same physical space as clients anyway - we know our employees well enough to have an idea of where they'll function best in the company. I hope you found my response interesting. And of course, I upvoted you as I enjoy discussing these kinds of things. :)
The private conversation part, while yes the conversation was in a crowded area I don't think they expected anyone to be paying attention I mean if someone is talking near you do you tend to listen in? I'm not arguing whether she should or should be but I still think it was a private conversation. The only thing that has gone wrong here is I think everyone harassing and over reacting while she really, really, really shouldn't have posted the pictures on twitter (IMO obviously) I mean it's not like she intended to get someone fired, a talking to maybe.
Is this normal for the Valley? I feel like the Valley is the last place people will be able to unionize sometimes.
They did something wrong, by not doing something. 2 things happened and let's not confuse them. 1 -- An incident was reported, and it was dealt with. I think few have issues with it. People got pulled to the side. Statements taken etc. Ok good. 2 -- Someone posted face pictures of attendees (sponsors none the less), put them on twitter, added nasty caption underneath ("ass clown"). That is not good. That is wrong and it creates and insensitive and hostile environment. This happened at PyCon (not on the street, in a bar,etc). People were wearing PyCon shirts and badges. NOT issuing a statement explicitly condoning that is like watching someone get groped and remaining neutral with everyone one the web defending them "They did the right thing, see they didn't do anything...". **Nope** the right thing is to not be neutral, the right thing is to issue a public statement. Much like the statement issued when the guy posted a picture of a naked woman in one of the slides. There was a short mentioned of that, an apology, and a promise to be more vigilant in the future. So, still not going to PyCon, until I see that happening again in this case. You are welcome to go. Might want to wear a face mask (just in case) and provide a fake name.
"An eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind." 
Your link doesn't work because you included a colon at the end of the URL. It should be: https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct/blob/master/code_of_conduct.md
Actually they had to have been semi aware of it because she was tagging them in tweets if I remember correctly.
"pip install Pillow" no "easy_install Pillow" no "sudo install pip" no... this is why I have just submitted PEP 439 :-)
&gt; ... one of my employees What employees are you talking about? You are a teacher :-/.
Why? I don't see a problem here so long as people are actively encouraged to enter the CS field then what's the big deal? If typically one gender prefers a type of activity then there's nothing you can do short of forcing the other gender to join it. I just don't see it I mean if someone doesn't find an activity interesting then ok, let them do what the like. The only time I can see a problem is when a gender is actively discouraged from doing something.
Thank you. I will take the necessary steps once I've had time to slip a proper review into my schedule.
I think in a day you will regret having made this comment.
I don't see how that has relevance here, the OP seems (in this comment thread at least) to be suggesting that gender isn't relevant to programming, something which I whole heartedly agree with. Gender isn't relevant to a lot of jobs.
&gt;Adria Richards ‏@adriarichards 23h &gt; &gt;hey @mundanematt, it's clear from the last 24 hours you're a bully. &gt;@SendGrid supports me. Stop trolling. The just fired her. Wait a moment as I compose myself... HAHAHAHAHAHA
I teach in my "spare time" - typically 4 to 6 hours a week. I enjoy it and it's a break from the business. I also play the violin and have done since I was very young. You'd be amazed what you can fit into your day if you schedule it properly. And if you get regular sleep and exercise.
The brainfuck community isn't nearly as touchy about risqué humor. FuckCon was awesome last year.
On the flip side, if you handle the situation correctly, and make a public statement to that effect, its nothing but good publicity. Playhaven, had they just said, "no we are not firing this guy based on a woman's twitter of an overheard private conversation. Playhaven believes in a open and frank discussion at conferences and refuse to make a decision that has a chilling effect on discussion at conferences." How much of the internet's hero would they be now?
yeah, good point: only mpl is fully python 3 compatible. i think pyqtgraph only partial? At least it should not too hard to change.
Good.
Apparently both were Playhaven devs. Only one was fired. I don't know if there was a history or just something out of this circumstance that caused one to be fired and not the other.
http://pastebin.com/ubmznGhn I don't think they are taking chances.
I disagree on the privacy thing, but we all know that debate is missing the forest for the trees. The real irony here is that the harassment proves her point, and reminds me of the lines from Huxley's *Apes and Essences*: &gt; The leech's kiss, the squid's embrace, &gt; The prurient ape's defiling touch: &gt; And do you like the human race? &gt; No, not much. 
I think that neither Adria or those guys should be fired and this got way out proportion. And it's not PSF fault.
She violated the CoC Pycon wrote, and they did nothing about it, while enforcing the code on the guys at her twittered behest. Not exactly stellar handling of the situation in terms of assuring future attendees they won't have their careers ruined for showing up and not behaving like its a deposition 24/7. I doubt next year will have the same turnout.
Well we'll have to agree to disagree, good posts though you definitely deserved that gold. I do have two questions however. &gt;missing the forest for the trees. I've never heard this and it's not obvious to me what this means, could you explain it and I don't understand the poem could you explain it? Thanks for reading!
You probably won't get much sympathy for your stance seeing that this is /r/python though.
I think Adria should be fired. It seems she tried to profit from the incident. She is also a PR person and a "developers advocate". In that position this is one of the worst things she should have done. I think the guy should not have been fired. Still waiting for a statement from PlayHeaven (guy's employer). It is PSF's fault for not saying anything. It happened on their watch, it happened at their conference. It happened to one of their Golden Sponsors (for gossakes). They quietly amended their rules in Github. Jesse Noller supported Adria and issued a supporting comment. What I want is a condemnation of what happened. Image a groping had happened. Imagine Adria grabbed that guys' butt when in line for food. Ok. PSF stays neutral, everyone moves on. People on the net are saying: *"Holly crap, I can't believe that happened, I am not going to PyCon, this stuff is outrageous, why is it tolerated"* PSF quietly edits their rules in Github. Supports hail it as *"great progress, see they fixed the problem!"* Everyone else is still claiming it is hostile environment and a strong condemnation is expected. See, wouldn't that appear strange. And in this case, I would rather get groped, pushed and punched in the face than have my picture splattered on the Internet for my family, kids, wife, friend, and all the future employees to see with a tag underneath -- "ass clown". If they tolerate this shit and don't say anything -- fuck them. I am not going.
This post is a call for PyCon to join the ranks of organizations that have overreacted. Frankly, I'm surprised that 70% of people in this subreddit think calls for more overreaction are merited. Maybe we should boycott Reddit because we disagree with a lot of people in this subreddit. It that makes about as much sense.
not seeing the problem is the problem. it really has nothing to do with the activity itself, but the cultural environment surrounding it. the appeal of programming in itself has no correlation to gender, we all know this. but programming as a *social* experience? as a *career*? oh my god gender matters so very, very much. women aren't feeling alienated in silicon valley because people are saying "girls can't code." they're feeling alienated for reasons like sexualized environments, for being overlooked and dismissed for promotions and meaningful projects, for being made to feel uncomfortable in general and because of the attacks they receive if they mention any of these problems. 
Idiom: http://www.usingenglish.com/reference/idioms/forest+for+the+trees.html Poem: http://everything2.com/title/Ape+and+Essence
Jesse Noller updated the PyCon code of conduct: https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct/commit/500a3d25c27065598002f7c999de3fdfb7ab18b1
Turtle graphics are probably the best tool you have. Built-in to the standard library, visual and immediate, and you can get quite complex if you want to. Have them draw something they like, then show them how to make the code much simpler and more elegant by factoring repetitive things into loops and functions.
Even simpler, if you don't want any of your employees fired, don't fire them.
Well often times the people doing the hiring and firing are not the ones owning the business. 
It should have been resolved in private, without involving pycon staff. Most people learn that in Kindergarten. 
The amount of white-knighting in that thread is making me retch. edit: retch not wretch
Yeah it makes sense to fire her AFTER it blew up badly - not a very good job as an evangelist indeed. But if it didnt escalate the way it did for those 2 guys, we wouldnt be discussing this.
&gt;I think that neither Adria or those guys should be fired and this got way out proportion. Adria failed in the only real task assigned to her job: improving relationships with the start-up and developer community. She not only failed at that, she failed *so badly* that she pissed off developers and techies that SendGrid never had any intention of talking to and she got their servers DDOSed. There is no capacity in which she succeeded at her job in this incident, and little hope that she would ever be able to improve relations to undo the damage she did. That by itself is a good enough reason to fire her.
&gt;This actually turned me into support of at-will employment. Otherwise she would claim she was fired for sexism/racism, and win. Uh, at-will employment and discrimination protections are not necessarily mutually exclusive, nor are they here.
Shit like this is why I'm so paranoid online. Fuck assembling all the controversial opinions I express to friends on a whim so some asshole that doesn't know me can take them out of context later. Fuck giving employers this much ammunition. 
Thanks.
Well, when you DO tell a joke, you should always consider your audience. Had the audience been 80% women, and a woman made a "What big dongle" joke I am confident they would have thought it funny. This reminds me of a brilliant standup by Steve Hughes on being offended. “I was offended, I was offended and I have rights!” Well so what, be offended, nothing happened. You’re an adult, grow up, and deal with it. I was offended! Well, I don’t care! Nothing happens when you’re offended. “I went to the comedy show and the comedian said something about the lord, and I was offended, and when I woke up in the morning, I had leprosy.” That said, I personally believe you have to differentiate between these type of jokes and hate-jokes/genuine misogynism. The key here is intent, as far as I can tell any sane person I know, man or woman would have brushed this off as harmless of even funny. I mean, big dongles is funny.
yeah i clarified that later.
As a female, I 100% could have seen myself making these jokes (sometimes my sense of humour is unevolved). This woman needs to calm the fuck down. 
Well, maybe it is real. I really don't give a fuck either way. :D
I'm not saying accommodations shouldn't be made, for example something who's lost the use of their legs will need to move around the building. This extends to everything though, so long as they are competent at their job what does their gender matter?
The amount of bigorty left in male-dominated industry is making me wretch. And I'm not talking about the actual incident. 
The backlash was misogynistic because she picked the sexist side. The jokes were sexual, not sexist. She chose the misogynistic battlefield and people followed suit. 
This comes under active discouragement, sexual jokes very much depend on the type of people you're with however.
&gt;Women in technology need consistant messaging from birth through retirement they are welcome, competent and valued in the industry. Why? Why can't they fight through the reality of the world like the rest of us. You are not always welcome, competent and valued. Woman or man, this is simply a fact.
Welcome to the world of unintentional consequences of a personnel protocol and policy. You can't make a code of conduct that makes people not be assholes without making the code itself too complex for anyone to bother with. This is why these things simply haven't worked in academia or corporate America.
interesting...i'm an options trader (directional &amp; market neutral stuff), and was just thinking today about writing some trading scripts in Python. would love to collaborate, see what you got, offer insights, help build it out.
Simply put, they should have told her to take down the photo immediately after she tweeted it.
It probably does, I'm just not sure HOW to use the function to get the data I need. That's really my problem. 
The casual way in which you hurl the word bigot at me only serves to make in meaningless. Don't devalue it for your own hyperbole.
May I ask how old you are? Have you yourself engaged in that kind of behavior in the 1960s? 
She's fired alright.
Twitter too.
Looks like the attention whore got fired. Good riddance. Hope the guy who lost his job gets it back.
http://pitchforkstorches.com/img/angry_mob_fun_run.jpg
Vint Cerf is an Internet Evangelist, but I think he chose that title as a joke, and he has earned the right creating his own title. I don't really know what she is either, I quickly glanced over http://butyoureagirl.com/14015/forking-and-dongle-jokes-dont-belong-at-tech-conferences/ and saw: "I saw a photo on main stage of a little girl who had been in the Young Coders workshop. I realized I had to do something or she would never have the chance to learn and love programming because the ass clowns behind me would make it impossible for her to do so." Then I stopped glancing. I think she might be a bit delusional. But maybe that's her thing. She's a "social media expert" and she's getting a lot of attention, so that might be her end goal. I'm not sure how much she really cares about helping girls program I think she wants to be perceived as wanting to help girls program, hey, there might be money in that!: "He was mentioning that the PyLadies auction had raised $10,000 in a single night and the funds would be used the funds for their initiatives." The people that really help are the Andrew Ngs, Sebastian Thorns and Norvigs of this world. I can't thank them enough! Back to work =)
There is more than one perspective that matters here.
Well, being offended has nothing to do with being right or wrong. You're offended. Sort of like being mad, or sad, or happy. It's a state of mind, neither right nor wrong, and you're perfectly entitled to those feelings. What's *wrong* is assuming that the world should cater to your state of mind, as if being offended is the same thing as being physically or mentally injured. She has every right to be offended, but no right to go posting pictures of guys who offended her in an effort to publicly humiliate them. At that point, she becomes the one doing harm.
Yeah, that perception is also why they need to spell out anything in a code of conduct that just reeks of political correctness. I'm not straight from the cave, I know perfectly well that I shouldn't insult or harass people. I know how to behave around strangers. But somehow I need to accept the notion that I'm a social retard and need to be told exactly how to be behave and not be offended by it. A lot of tech conferences are getting flak from people who aren't even in the tech field for being sexist. They employ the circular logic that the conferences are sexist because there aren't many women attending them, then use that supposed sexism as an argument for why women don't attend them. A lot of those lobbing accusations of sexism make their money with lobbing accusation of sexism. 
Well you got that particular sense of humor that for some qualifies as misogyny 
No problem!
Two wrongs don't make a right. For the PSF, it doesn't sound like they even got a chance to respond to the problem before it became a public relations nightmare. If they had, the solution would have been a 1-2 year ban and possibly relay to their employers of their behavior in a professional environment. Instead PSF staff look like idiots, Richard's is being called a tattle-tale and or vigilante, and the guy's not only look like assholes but now everyone is unemployed with tarnished reputations. Is that the ideal outcome? Edit - masklinn has pointed out that I was misinformed and PSF actually did get to deal with the problem, man what a train wreck.
Wow one crazy bitch. I feel sorry for the guys who lost their jobs because of her.
Exactly. You don't want people who stir up the shit on purpose to serve their own agenda. 
Well said.
She views herself as a social justice warrior; she takes everything too seriously. Stuff like [this](https://sphotos-a.xx.fbcdn.net/hphotos-snc6/6432_620281767999074_1938178356_n.jpg) and [this](https://twitter.com/adriarichards/statuses/6039856858) See also: /r/TumblrInAction 
I don't know, sounds weird
Oh great, it is only getting worse. Somehow the internet has amplified our abilities to offend and take offense. - What was said was mildly inappropriate. Reporting it to PyCon was fine. - Public shaming was inappropriate. Probably should have been reported to PyCon as well. - Firing someone for an inappropriate pun that generated unwanted publicity is outrageous. - Firing Adria seems like it is an over-reaction as well, unless there was some sort of sit-down and she refused to back down. - Attacking Adria all over the internet is merely throwing fuel on this fire. edited for typo 
Whatever her intention were, the execution was more than poor. The hypoagency, damsel in distress routine, the passive aggressiveness, the self righteousness. She sets a very bad example and then has the gall to think she speaks for all women in tech. She is the kind of person that likes to be offended, it serves her identity as a victim. This is exactly why many people don't like to work with women, because they think they'll have to walk on eggshells around them. It creates a sterile work environment, devoid of fun. How about instead she told the guys in person that she was offended by their jokes. And then maybe write great code that earns her the recognition of her peers? 
You say that, but for example the person at the centre of this was a marketing rep for an email company. The only thing you really know about convention attendees is that they bought a ticket.
&gt;the appeal of programming in itself has no correlation to gender, we all know this. Actually, I *don't* know this. It seems quite possible to me that programming is an endeavor that may appeal more to male brains on average. There's a [great article by Christina Hoff Summers](http://www.theatlantic.com/sexes/archive/2013/03/what-lean-in-misunderstands-about-gender-differences/274138/) I just read about this very topic: &gt;What if difference between men and women turns out to be a phenomenon not of oppression, but rather of social well-being? Similarly, the fact that there are fewer men who teach elementary school children may not be due to a 'matriarchy' which discriminates against men. It may simply be because fewer men enjoy that type of work. I'm sure there's some sexism in the IT sector, but I think it's wrong to flat-out deny the *possibility* that some of the gender differences we see might have a biological origin. I admit, I'm not a psychologist, so I can only follow what the best research seems to show. If it ever turns out that gender disparities are shown to be 100% due to sexism, then I will accept that finding (however unlikely that seems to me), but until that happens, I will keep an open mind. 
I guess you could say they were quite harshly *pun*ished.
Same here. This was my first PyCon - I had a great time, enjoyed the talks and have a few new project ideas to hack on. I will be going again next year.
I suppose you are right. The social elements are pretty much sterilized by codes of conducts and prying ears, and the talks you can probably watch online after the conference is done. 
Simply out of curiousity, what ARE you talking about then?
In all fairness to SendGrid, they did fire her.
I'm an equal opportunity hater - I hate all humans. Animals, not so bad .-) 
No one came out ahead. The man in question's employers should not have fired him, Adria should not have publicly tweeted their picture before attempting to resolve the situation through proper channels. I doubt the man in question wanted Adria fired, Adria expressed not agreeing with him being fired, no one supports the vitriolic attacks being pointed at Adria. Everyone lost in this situation, the only I can do is commend the PyCon organizers for handling the situation as tactfully as they could and did. And sadly I think 0 people learned any lessons.
Would you prefer "she was being an asshole"? As long as we are going to use gendered pronouns (*he*, *she*) and refer to people by gender (*men*, *women*), and since the whole brouhaha is supposedly because of the delicate sensibilities of females, why not gendered pejoratives? If we say "Lady" and "Gentleman", why not Bitch, Dick, etc.? It certainly isn't about *professionalism*, because the rallying cry for the past couple of years has been all about *making environments more comfortable for* ***females*** specifically. Not to mention, it is important that people be able to make personal remarks to each other without worrying that the Professionalism Police are monitoring their every exchange. 
Please provide an analogy related to sexism.
Just started using this framework about a month ago, and I'm just blown away by how dynamic and simple it is. Absolutely an awesome framework to work with.
Something so minor and stupid has escalated to this!? Way out of hand and the fault could probably go around the table. I think the issue was blown way out of proportion to begin with, that original tweet shouldn't have been made. She had the right to be uncomfortable by their words, but they weren't speaking to her (as far as I know) and it sounds like the jokes were mild at best. Now possibly three people have lost their jobs because of something so stupid.
*retch
&gt;20% women. Awesome It's funny because it's not sarcasm.
&gt;Would you prefer "she was being an asshole"? Well, as an insult, it is more of an equalizer, since everyone has one.
No, people are saying the backlash is misogynistic because 4chan got on the case and flooded every public profile of hers with threats of rape. Regardless, "bitch" isn't misogynistic. It's the female equivalent of "asshole", and simply translates as "person being a shithead".
&gt;These guys weren't fired on "her say-so". They were fired by their employers for acting unprofessional while representing the company. If you read her reply to the HN post, she thinks that was an overreaction. Yes they were fired on "her say-so". Their employers are idiots, but they made their decision using only the information provided by Adria's photos and tweets. The firing happened so quickly there was literally nothing else they could have based their decision on. Both Adria and PlayHaven are idiots and should be roundly criticized. &gt;The conversation occurred in the middle of the audience. Right, so the mature response would have been to turn around and say, "hey guys, could you please keep it down, I'm trying to listen to the presenter", not take their photo without permission and post it to twitter claiming sexual harassment.
&gt;Let's please try to remember that this does not represent python community as a whole Oh the reactions represent IT as a whole, though. A boys club that likes to make dick jokes and call women bitches and cunts.
You're completely right. What the hell was she doing there anyway? I'm just saying it's not always a free vacation for everyone.
Couldn't have happened to a nicer person!
uhhh... x-post from /r/nocontext ?
Adria herself reported it by tweeting the conference organizers with a message whose content violated the Code of Conduct. She should have been thrown out. That she wasn't is indication of sexism.
As a man in modern western US society, is it more offensive to be called a bitch or a dick? Why?
Yeah, I reckon you get out of conventions what you put in.
Is asshole gender neutral enough?
No, the reason she was fired (and probably got a nice exit package) is because firing her is good PR for the company. Not because keeping her around is bad PR.
for example, a few years ago it was exceedingly common for programmers in offices where I worked to quip "that's what she said" to turn innocuous statements into double entendres. on the surface this is harmless and sometimes even funny, but it's not conducive at all to female inclusion when *everyone* is doing it to bond together and they're overwhelmingly male. but to make this criticism as a female is to target oneself in an antifeminist circlejerk in this sort of environment.
in all fairness, they announced firing her after I posted the above as far as I know. it's still a valid question. 
I don't think she's completely wrong, although she could have worded it correctly. She's talking about institutional racism.
Actually, 'asshole' *would* be more apt.
Facebook, twitter, and the company blog.
Good. Racist sexists who compromise people's reputations with reckless abandon are poisonous to the community. 
Would you want your job back after something like that?
If you don't think straight white men have a social and institutional advantage, you're an idiot.
&gt;She had the right to be uncomfortable by their words, but they weren't speaking to her So as long as I'm not talking to an individual, I can say whatever I want with no repercussion?
Pretty much impossible unless your employer was stupid enough to document the discrimination in an email or something.
I think Hadalgo's point is a good one. She was (as I understand it) some sort of PR representative for Sendgrid. For whatever reason she stared to generate bad PR for Sendgrid so that might be a reason for them to stop employing her. I don't see how calling her a bitch strengthens that point, in fact as far as I can see it only weakens the point HidalgoFelix made. I do think it's important to make programming environments more friendly for women than they currently are. Because I think programming is awesome, and I think more women should be encouraged to join in with the awesomeness. I don't see how, on the subreddit for a fun programming language, calling a woman a bitch, regardless of what she's done, helps to do that. &gt; As long as we are going to use gendered pronouns (he, she) and refer to people by gender (men, women), and since the whole brouhaha is supposedly because of the delicate sensibilities of females, why not gendered pejoratives? If we say "Lady" and "Gentleman", why not Bitch, Dick, etc.? There is quite a leap between calling a woman she and calling a woman you don't like a bitch. Bitch is an insult pretty much entirely reserved for women, and it is often used to put down women who are assertive in the way a similar insult wouldn't be used to put down an assertive man. Not the sort of insult I think is appropriate for a group of people who struggle to get women to join in. 
Wright you are ;)
No one should have been fired in the first place. 
That assumes they knew about the photo and tweet (I don't believe they did) in time for it to make a difference.
It's basically the IT version of a pharmaceutical rep. You're employed by a company and where a pharma rep goes to doctors and promotes their company's drug, a "developer/technology evangelist" goes to developers, CIOs etc and promotes their company's product.
My thinking was that keeping everyone happy would be impossible. But you can probably please 95%+ of the people. Assume the other 5% are split up at the extreme tails of the reasonableness distribution and it may be impossible to please both groups at the same time.
Are there trading platforms that you can use from python? I'd love to mess about with stuff like this!
Yeah, she totally failed at her job of putting up with sexist bullshit. And a few idiots with DDoS scripts does not "developers and techies" make.
If you think constantly reminding me about it changes anything in anyway, you're an idiot. I don't take advantage of people and treat everyone as equally as I possibly can.
It's funny because she kept going on about how Pycon is a professional conference and that behavior is *totes not allowable* at anything professoinal. And then her Twitter account, which uses her company affiliation prominently and thus serves as an extension of her professional life, is loaded with completely unprofessional shit. 
While that may or may not be true, please explain how one mildly sexual joke shared between friends, one that pales in comparison to, say, an episode of Family Guy, equates to calling women the names you mentioned.
Though not necessarily a fault of their own (on an individual basis). This really comes down to class/history imo and is more the fault of the "ruling class" than "white men".
Why was this deleted?
&gt; I would rather get groped, pushed and punched in the face than have my picture splattered on the Internet Yeah, see, [you](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Puppy_Linux_death_threats) don't [get](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Kathy_Sierra_incident) to make [that choice](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Dickwolves) for [other people](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Noirin_Shirley_ApacheCon_incident).
You can't just blame 4chan for everything you hate about your community, dude.
Of course straight white men have a social and institutional advantage. But in that instance, she threw it in someone's face to attempt to discredit his arguments. As if to say "Oh, of course you wouldn't understand the term lynching. Of course you would think it's okay to say that completely innocuous word. You're a straight white male. Obviously life has been sooo easy for you." As a gay white male, I'm disgusted that this woman thinks she's helping the cause for equality. She's just making minorities look like whiny douchebags that flip shit at the drop of a hat.
&gt;Yeah, she totally failed at her job of putting up with sexist bullshit. There is literally nothing at all that is sexist about the comments. "Forking" was actually talking about forking a repo(not a joke) and "dongle" was not directed at anyone at all - it was just a euphemism. Referencing part of someone's anatomy is not the same as sexist. &gt;And a few idiots with DDoS scripts does not "developers and techies" make. The reaction to this everywhere I've seen it(HackerNews, tech sections of reddit, the start up community, and my own work) have been overwhelmingly against her.
Thanks for the clarification. I'd thought the photo came *after* the other tweet.
&gt; Should everyone have two Twitter accounts, two G+ accounts, etc? I try and cultivate two very distinct public and private internet presences. And I don't become close friends with any coworkers. 
Seriously, the fact that there are 20-something people who upvoted her linking to that Scalzi article as "proof" of sexism or racism is utterly disgusting. Have you read the fucking article? It's *exactly* an explanation of why your opinion on this whole thing probably doesn't matter.
&gt; calling a woman a bitch, **regardless of what she's done** This is your own double-standard showing. If you want equality, you need to hold women responsible for their bad behavior as well. Have you ever used a pejorative when referring to a male? Undoubtedly. 
&gt; An eye for an eye? makes the whole world blind, as this clusterfuck demonstrates.
No. What he did was dumb, and maybe rude. What she did was mean, at least. He's still out of a job, so I don't think you can call it even.
Yes, it is. But nothing wrong, just a kind-of fast-forward...
Interesting. I think of myself as one person, but I don't have public social media accounts at all. On Reddit or Twitter, if you find me you can figure out who I am. But you couldn't do the reverse very easily. It isn't that it's a secret, it's just not what I want my identity to be if someone googles me. (Though unfortunately someone in the same city as me, *with the same name*, was on the local news for being a pedophile, so that... Well, that sucks. I'm hoping that people know that's not me, because I'm not in prison.)
I don't understand your point. A) at-will employment doesn't make it legal to fire someone for their sex or race. B) if you mean they could claim it was simply for no reason, that's irrelevant since they, in fact, made a public statement that it was connected to this incident, so clearly they feel secure in their ability to defend their decision rather than hiding behind not having to tell anyone why she was fired.
I have the problem where I'm literally the only person with my name that has ever been born, so it's rather easy to track me down with just my last name. 
Almost all of the US is "at will": you can be fired at any time with no justification whatsoever. There are very specific "statutory protections" in most at-will state, but these basically boil down to: a termination is wrongful if it was very specifically discriminative (pretty much explicitly due to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or handicap status). As a result, employees in at-will state will generally just go with firing you with no justification whatsoever to avoid any risk of the above. And "wrongful termination" is effectively "terminated by a complete moron unable to keep his mount shut"
That is the stupidest thing I've read in a long time.
No kidding. I agree with every point you make. Where PyCon screwed up was in not banning Adria for her despicable behavior.
haha
&gt; Justice? Was present at no point of the process.
"@SendGrid supports me. Stop trolling." Famous last words.
Comtext http://techcrunch.com/2013/03/21/a-dongle-joke-that-spiraled-way-out-of-control/
Yeah, she's a marketing rep and her presence at the company was hurting the brand. She was never going to stay long.
If you're going to make a pun, you should find something harder than *"coc"*.
That's not true. My friend's son was [born without one](http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/001147.htm).
I never got that as a selling point. I've never met anyone who said "my job's great -- I don't have to give notice when I quit".
I wish no one was fired over this incident. But calling the comments sexist is going a bit far, no?
 answer = ('blame', 'it', 'on', 'python') answer[3] = 'php' #damn
Don't forget, not every state considers sexual orientation a protected status. Go on down to the South, where it's perfectly legal to call out every dyke and faggot in the facility and have security throw them out on their ass. Just like that, they have no protections against being LBGT. 
&gt; Am I not allowed to "fire" the kid who mows my lawn every month? As long as you give them their contracted notice, sure. How do you think countries without at will employment manage to work?
He's not blaming pycon he's mearly pointing out that pycon may be a dangerous environment for his employees with this standard set. Pycon had nothing to do with it but it still happened their.
Its harder to fire "all dem jews n' niggers" because its a federally protected status indicator (Religion and race.) DoL may come with the jackboots. What is legal is to fire "all dem faggots and dykes," because federally, they're not protected, and only some states offer that protection under law.
&gt; The reaction to this everywhere I've seen it(HackerNews, tech sections of reddit, the start up community, and my own work) have been overwhelmingly against her Also overwhelmingly male, which probably isn't coincidental.
No, sadly, no.
I don't whatsoever understand the point you're making here.
That's the fun thing about being a dude. My opinion isn't the deciding opinion on that. And whether or not the original conversation was, the sheer amount of shitlord fury unleashed at her is proof of something sick in the python and IT communities at large. Do I think anyone should have been fired? No. Do I think making stupid immature comments at a conference that explicitly states diversity as one of its primary goals, in a field where there's literally hundreds of other conferences where they can go be as neckbeardy as they like, is idiotic? Yes. The reason this is a big deal is that everyone is screeching "WE AIN'T SEXIST" out one side of their mouths while complaining about that uptight bitch who can't just take a joke out the other. And they don't see the contradiction in this whatsoever, and anyone who tries to point it out gets shouted down as a brainwashed feminazi slave.
It's harder than one would think if you comment regularly on something like Reddit. Any story you tell about yourself invariably includes random bits of personal information. I wipe all of my comments older than a month just to be safe. 
Note: Portland**ia** - a parody television show that nobody should take as a serious portrayal of Portland. 
I always thought bastard was effectively the male equivalent. Is it sexist to call somebody a bastard?
And here I was convinced that I was the only person in the whole world that read User Friendly.
my other tuple is a list
&gt;Also overwhelmingly male, which probably isn't coincidental. You're right, it's not coincidental...the number of people who give a damn about this in the first place are overwhelmingly male. When it's about pycon, programmers, and the start-up scene no matter what most reactions are going to be male by default...though she's also had a fair number of females criticize her as well. The fact remains: There was nothing sexist *at all* about the comments. Anyone with two neurons to rub together can figure out why the reaction was so bad.
Correct. Do you think I'm siding with adriwhatever? I'm not. However, I think it's plain to see some of the backlash is mysogynist. It sullies those with legitimate reasons to be mad, such as the two people initially harassed via twitter.
She generated a lot of negative press for play haven in the tech field. There only way to respond to that negative press is to a. Ignore it and open them selves to more negative press b. Get a new python coder. One of these is way easier and less messy (potentially ). It's shitty but when someone with adrias following name and shames like that, those are the options she's giving the persons employer
That's what I was saying to begin with.
Wasn't informed on that, so next question... why the fuck share the incident on Twitter, especially as a representative/evangelist for a fairly popular startup?
It's to avoid the ridiculous huffing and puffing Guido does.
No one is arguing that the joke wasn't completely blown out of proportion. Yet the negative press didn't say , "hey im blowing this way up". It said, " hey sf playhaven supports sexist work places" thats adria's bad but it still places the guys work place in a shitty situation where hiring a new python guy is 1000x easier than dealing with feminazi backlash and tons of potential bad press. Adria knows this 100% and its why she did it...
&gt; If you want equality, you need to hold women responsible for their bad behavior as well. Yeah, go ahead. But do it by calling out their bad behavior.
Dude making stupid theoretical argument from his entitled and ignorant tower gets upvoted, links to widespread abuse at cons and in the industry that show why she reacted the way she did instead of BEING A MAN and telling them to shut up in person get downvoted. Just the standard misogynist cycle. 
Reading the comments here and piecing it together has been a fun ride for me. 
SporkCon, so much more... neutral!
That's a good point. The South and parts of the Midwest for that matter.
It was the comments around it - you don't use twitter much do you? 
Seriously, this shit again? Can we keep this sub about Python?
Nothing is harder than my coc... pun
I love it too :) It would appear the sprint at pycon went rather well which is a good sign.
When you are arguing not to use a gendered pejorative *because someone is a woman*, that is a double-standard. Are you saying women can't handle it, because they are women? Nobody was complaining about gendered pejoratives applied to *men*. But suddenly women enter the picture and *everything has to change*. Hence, a double-standard. If you want to argue against using ANY pejoratives, that is different from arguing about *female-specific* ones applied to females. 
that's a total misrepresentation of what happened in this case
I wrote part of [queshuns.com](http://www.queshuns.com) using CherryPy. I was drawn to it back when the only server choices were Apache2/mod_python or fastcgi
chuckling about the word dongle isn't sexist.
And [this gem](http://i7.minus.com/ibsjtfJQi9JbnB.png)? Since she's black, she's obviously *incapable* of racism. I think she's actually not a racist, sexist, or anything else. I don't think she really hates anyone. I think she's just a troll. But she trolled on behalf of SendGrid.
I think sexual harassment is a bit of a stretch. As far as she's reported, or anyone else can tell, she overheard something like this: * I would fork that guy's repo. * That's a big dongle you have there. That's a pretty low bar for "harassment." At any rate, it was addressed by Pycon. But Pycon now had to go *out of their way* to *explicitly prohibit* exactly what this woman did. Think about that. If you did something bad enough to justify writing a rule explicitly for what you did, c'mon. Then you get into her twitter account, which is pretty unprofessional, her random accusations of racism, her statement (out of the blue, years ago) that [she's incapable of racism because of her race](http://i7.minus.com/ibsjtfJQi9JbnB.png), and of course her blog where she compares her experience to "Lord of the Flies" and starts off with a "Joan of Arc" comparison, it becomes pretty clear that she's going out of her way to be a hero/victim. Her job was to represent SendGrid publicly. She obviously did an incredibly lousy job.
...so you'd insult someone for something they can't change? Do you frequently insult people for having different skin color, gender, or sexual preference? Because that's crossing the line into bigotry. The point I'm trying to make is that the term you use to insult someone can be loaded with a lot of additional meaning you may not intend, which a lot of people on either side of this particular discussion are failing to realize. Insulting someone with a term loaded with gendered meaning is tying their sex to why you are insulting them. Don't you ever *think* about these things? ;P
no she was fired for failing to deal with the "sexist" comments in a professional and appropriate manner. taking the guys picture and posting it online was childish as hell, she should of talked to the people in charge of the conference and let them deal with it. 
Love this guy, it's great that he can use his time to both develop *and* teach Python. 
At will employment law does not circumvent a labor contract guaranteeing you work for an explicit amount of time, or one requiring just cause to fire, it simply lets a business (and the worker, mind you) end contractless relations whenever they want. I have no contract with lawn kid. When I tell him I don't want to pay 20 bucks for him to mow my lawn I don't want the government on my ass for not giving him notice.
[Relevant](http://imgur.com/pvFAbck)
Neat! I've been using it for some in-house software at our company and it's been a straight up pleasure coding with it.
You'll only hear management say that to you when you ask "what the heck does this mean on my contract?". 
&gt; I have no contract with lawn kid. Then shut up about the kid who mows your lawn.
No, I try never to insult anyone at all, let alone for any of those reasons, but when you're trying to be offensive, you'll pick the words that offend that person best. Complaining that an insult is politically incorrect is like criticizing an instrumental piece of music for having shitty lyrics. Anyway, the word "bitch" isn't even related to any of this since it wasn't used to insult her just because she's a woman (not bigotry), and because being a bitch is not something that is out of anyone's control (not discriminatory). But yeah, this whole discussion is crowded by people projecting sexism and racism to other people's words. I think that particular brand paranoia is just as dumb as actual sexism and racism.
Especially if their job is to boost your company's image. She really hasn't been making people say nice things about Sendgrid lately.
You see, the victim doesn't yes. But Adria wasn't the victim. She did the abuse in this case. Had she chosen to grab his butt he would have probably still have his job, she chose instead to put his pictures and face on the net, put an offensive tag underneath, made up a sap story about being sooooo offended (while herself making offensive jokes publicly on twitter). That cost him his job, and now his picture is for everyone to see, his kids, wife, friend, future employers. She knew what she was doing very well, she can't claim ignorance. But it has backfired on her it seems. 
Yeah, I think this situation is really blown out of proportion. I think it is important for people to have avenues of discussion. If they feel sexually harassed they should be able to report it regardless of whether other people would feel the same way. Action should then be taken on the severity of the offense. Does she deserve to lose her job over the twitter picture? I am going to say no because if she was naive she might do the same thing. I suspect she lost her job over the continued social media misconduct. I'm really trying to take her character out of the more general question, and assume that many people have difficulties standing up to harassment. It is hard for me to say whether or not this was harassment because I will laugh at a bad dongle joke.
She got fired, it's over. Post some PyCon videos people.
&gt;the word "bitch" isn't even related to any of this since it wasn't used to insult her just because she's a woman (not bigotry), and because being a bitch is not something that is out of anyone's control (not discriminatory). Uh, if you're saying that the term "bitch" has no tie with gender, I'd like to remind you it's originally a term for a *female* dog. It's an insult based on the fact that it's not only dehumanizing, it's directly tied to gender-it turns femininity into a perjorative. It's not enough to call someone a dog, you're specifically calling them out as a female dog. &gt;when you're trying to be offensive, you'll pick the words that offend that person best ...and frequently, in the process, you say something very honest about yourself. Because you can't really judge with 100% certainty what other people find offensive (though you can usually make a pretty good guess of it), you have to go with your best guess. In so doing, you show what you think is really a poor characteristic in a human being. By tying the feminine to your insult, you're showing (or at least projecting) that being a woman is a negative trait. And that, my friend, is how sexism happens, even when you "didn't mean to come off as sexist".
Whatever positive effect this blog wanted to have was totally destroyed by reposting that picture.
We're now going through the post-mortem. This whole silly episode will be forgotten about in a couple of days.
What I like about this take on the situation is that this whole thing really comes down to someone who likes, craves, and receives attention. And how allowing this sort of thing to continue is detrimental for the community. Why is this important? Because we want new members. Professional members that want to get shit done and advance our science. We don't need trolls or people kicking off flamewars of any kind. Edit: Adria has reportedly been fired by SendGrid, as she can no longer perform her duties as "developer relations."
Fortunately, it's a fairly rational take on it (for once).
I suspect that by now the damage has already been done.
To people downvoting this : She got fired because she cannot do her job as "developer relations" - she obviously isn't qualified to build relationships with developer communities. She could have taken action that would have rectified the situation (removed the offenders privately, talk about it in a way publicly that would be *positive* both for the offenders and the community) - instead she did so in a way to get the *most attention possible* for herself personally, at the expense of her employer and community, and she succeeded.
Hey remember that great big drama that happened in 2011? (neither does anyone else.) But hey, we need something to watch while eating popcorn every once in a while, don't we? I mean, we don't have developers releasing sex-tapes, or being discovered with mistresses, etc, like they have in politics and celebrity-dom. Give us *something*.
Yeah, I follow my SendGrid friends on twitter, got it as soon as Twitter felt like it. Was also reading this commentary http://amandablumwords.wordpress.com/2013/03/21/3/ show the person in question has a history of doing stuff like this. That begs the question of how they got to be in such an influential position, what an amazingly bad hiring choice for an evangelist. 
I love that the boy's club culture that dominates conventions like PyCon has responded to Richards with death threats, rapes threats and calling her an attention seeking whore. And then they wonder how women could possibly feel uncomfortable at conventions.
Hmm... I agree with your sentiment.
It's the principle of the matter, each time the picture is posted it drags them, and everybody else in that picture, through the mud again.
i thought that the article was quite redeeming towards them.
I think that most of that shit started after the internet hate machine got a hold of the story. Once that mob starts, there's no stopping them, and they'll do anything to be as "shocking" as possible.
Well, like I said, I see the individual components in isolation. Filter, got it. Handler, got it. Root vs child loggers, got it. What I'm missing is something more canonical like, "This is how you would want to set up logging on a cluster of webservers." Or "This is great for GUI application logging." Perhaps that's outside of the scope of the documentation, but the logging stuff is SO general purpose and abstract that the onus is left on the programmer to really design from the bottom up a system. Maybe that's good, maybe that's bad, but I would love some comprehensive examples, not just examples of how to use a few individual bits like in the cookbook you linked to.
That was a very well written and unbiased piece. A rare treat compared to what most of the discussions around these issues devolve into.
I've been using CherryPy for years and years. In some ways, it's good. In other ways, well, the codebase is kind of rough. The proxies are somewhat opaque and while the documentation has improved, far too much of it is simply in wiki form. The contributed plugins and tools you get into are not always terribly well-coded or maintained. If I started again on my current project, I'd use Flask or Bottle.
This is the third post today about this topic that I've seen. Please keep this subreddit's content on the topic of Python instead of attacks on people (regardless of how "good" or "bad" they are) please. This post will be deleted shortly.
My problem is that people are attacking *her* because *she* is of the *female* gender. If a guy rightfully makes a comment about people making dick jokes, would this have been an issue? No. Women are constantly attacked, and we pretend that it never happens. Right or wrong, these issues occur with women more than 20% of the time, so there is definitely an imbalance. 
Sorry, but words mean what people today make of them, not what they meant originally. Bitch is pretty much universally understood as an insult not on gender, but on attitude. &gt;In so doing, you show what you think is really a poor characteristic in a human being. That right there is a giant leap of logic and a ridiculous characterization of the angry thought process that precedes an insult. No, an insult doesn't pop into my head because it's what I think to be a poor characteristic in a person. I *know* it's offensive because I've seen it offend people. That's how we learn which are the bad words, since we were kids. Precisely because you don't know what that particular person might find offensive, you'd go for the one that has some evidence in its favor. If you call a woman a "bitch" when it's an appropriate description of her attitude, you use it because the gender of both the word and the person coincide, not because you hate women or think being a woman is a bad characteristic. It'd be pretty ridiculous to call her a "prick", now wouldn't it? Whenever someone tells you to "go fuck yourself" do you reflect on that person's hate of masturbation or something? You're just digging for additional meaning where there isn't any.
Should be possible, yes. What's missing for now is any kind of user separation, so you just see all the files on the server. If you're using it in an environment where you can trust co-workers with a shared directory, that's OK.
It doesn't sound great, but at tech events it's not unusual for &lt;10% of attendees to be women. 20% is progress.
She is having gendered insults thrown at her because she is female, if the person was male they would have had male insults thrown at him.
TIL about 'reversed''. Wow, this is a great video. Thanks!
If the male had done all this stuff I do think it would be. It is not just that she tweeted, but instead of just turning around and asking them to stop? All those racists tweets? Comparing herself to Joan of Arc? 
&gt; This whole silly episode will be forgotten about in a couple of days. Indeed: &gt; Prey is swallowed whole, and may take several days or even weeks to fully digest. —[Wikipedia: *Pythonidae*: "Feeding"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythonidae#Feeding)
I'm not pretending that it doesn't happen. A quick look at twitter will confirm that it does (I checked earlier today). It happens, and it's terrible to see. But our community is not defined by the loudest, most obnoxious idiots on the internet. This 'culture' does not dominate PyCon. Far more people are trying to deal with this sensibly, and if anyone at PyCon had made those kinds of threats to her, they would have been dealt with.
If there was a picture of you, associated with you being fired, and getting a bunch of unwanted attention.. Would you want to see it again and again all over the place? I find it weird this isn't obvious to people.
I tend to think that the best indicator of character is past experience, and this gal's article does wonders to illuminate that. I think her suggestion as to how the situation should have been handled was far preferable to what actually happened. 
True. IMO, the most important point was that this is a lose-lose event. It's just one more case chalked up to the list of liabilities of using public communication channels.
Possibly, but I don't know that I would mind so much if it appeared in an article explaining how I got a raw deal. Besides which, the screenshot includes the text by Adria so we can see in context what it was she said that started all of this.
&gt;but words mean what people today make of them, not what they meant originally I'd ask you to pardon my language when I ask "what the fuck does this mean", but what you've basically said that language is totally fluid to the point of having no fixed meaning, so what's the point? I'm sorry, but this notion is, frankly, total nonsense! For one thing, we have dictionaries! But what's more, we have this thing called "subtext": the notion of what goes unsaid. Connotation (a word's unspoken meaning) is just as important as denotation (it's written down meaning)-perhaps even more so in the context of the discussion we're having. &gt;I know it's offensive because I've seen it offend people. That's how we learn which are the bad words, since we were kids. The important thing here isn't whether or not it *does* offend people- the important thing is *why* it is offensive. Any five year old could pick up on social situations well enough to find out what people find objectionable. It's the sign of a more mature person that you take some time to think on *why* your words are offensive. From your tone (supposing you're not trolling), I would assume that you haven't read much into the notion of [linguistic relativity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linguistic_relativity), or "how the way you speak affects the way you think". The reason I stress this as important is because the way you speak defines the way you think, and vice versa. It's not a great leap of logic at all- it's a well known and well documented anthropological phenomenon. &gt;If you call a woman a "bitch" when it's an appropriate description of her attitude Frankly, if you spend much time with women-any women-you'll find out that this word has become so stigmatized that it's actually a pretty heinous thing to call a woman. Keep in mind: in the game of life, if you're a white, straight male, [you're playing on easy](http://whatever.scalzi.com/2012/05/15/straight-white-male-the-lowest-difficulty-setting-there-is/). I'm sorry if you've found any of this upsetting or abrasive-neither was my intent (really). It takes a lot of time and introspection for most men to start to even pretend that they understand a feminist viewpoint- I'm not very far into it myself, and am probably severely lacking in a complete understanding of it. But it's a very interesting and informative thing to study if you take the time to read up on it. I've learned a lot of things about myself from reading feminist works. I'd be happy to suggest some other reading if you're interested in looking into it.
I don't think she claimed it was harassment in her tweets, you find the tweets linked on her blog.
This could be my reading of *A Song of Ice and Fire* talking, but I've always though "bastard" was a gender agnostic term, since it's a reference to a child born out of wedlock.
I'm sayin'! Everyone has one! Or at least, almost everyone, as /u/Jesus_Harold_Christ pointed out to me. 
&gt;This is your own double-standard showing. If you want equality, you need to hold women responsible for their bad behavior as well. If you are holding someone accountable for bad behavior, you should have the wherewithal to NOT be calling them a "bitch" or a "dick". Adding gender (or in this case, a gendered slur) to the equation does absolutely NOTHING to strengthen your cause.
I started typing a response before and then got pulled away, so here goes again: There are a couple tools you can use with Python to integrate with Active Directory. The two main ones are either using LDAP ([python-ldap](http://www.python-ldap.org/)) or using the win32 API ( PyWin32 or ActivePython ). If all you're looking to do is LDAP / LDIF related, I'd use python-ldap. PyWin32 has a lot of cool stuff, but in this example all you'd be doing different is naming an LDAP query through ADSI. Anyways, if you're going to be doing a lot of stuff with the Win32 API, use something more appropriate like PowerShell. I personally see PyWin32's place as fitting where larger programs have a niche need for the API but otherwise are better suited for Python. **LDAP Example** import ldap # Connection information host = 'ldaps://' + server + ':' + str(port) user = user pw = pw # Init conn = ldap.initialize( host ) try: # Try and make a synchronous bind self.conn.simple_bind_s( user, pw ) # Search information basedn = "DC=corp,DC=com" scope = ldap.SCOPE_SUBTREE filter = "(&amp;(objectClass=computer)(name=MYHOST01))" attributes = ['dn'] # Search! result = conn.search_s( baseDN, scope, filter, attributes ) print result except ldap.LDAPError as e: print e 
I've just posted this on #pydata tweet analysis using NetworkX (visualised first using NetworkX, then GraphViz and then via Gephi [both not Python]), all the collection, cleaning and investigation was done with Python: http://ianozsvald.com/2013/03/22/analysing-pydata-london-and-brighton-tweets-for-concept-mapping/ The 3D surface plot and word cloud that I used when teaching Applied Parallel Computing at PyCon last week might also give you ideas? http://ianozsvald.com/2013/02/10/applied-parallel-computing-at-pycon-2013-march/
Even given Adria Richards's admittedly poor past performance handling situations like these, I wouldn't wish death/rape threats on anyone. I hope this week is over for all of us ASAP, so we can all just get on with our fucking lives already. 
Here's what the code is doing and where you can make changes to find what you need. ## Create instance of LDAP class. No connection has been made yet. l = ldap.initialize("ldap://ldap.example.com") # "try" means attempt the next section of code, but don't exit # the program if there's an error. try: # When we connect, make sure to connect using LDAPv3 l.protocol_version = ldap.VERSION3 # When we connect, if there's a referral to a different server, # ignore it. l.set_option(ldap.OPT_REFERRALS, 0) # Ok! Try and establish a connection using the username and # password of "me@example.com" and "password" bind = l.simple_bind_s("me@example.com", "password") # When we search, the base is the level at which we want # to start searching base = "dc=example, dc=com" # When we search, filter results down to ones that have an # objectClass of "user" AND whose sAMAccountName is "username" criteria = "(&amp;(objectClass=user)(sAMAccountName=username))" # When we search, only show the "displayName" and "company" # attributes of each object in the result. attributes = ['displayName', 'company'] # Ok! Search and store the result in the variable "result" result = l.search_s(base, ldap.SCOPE_SUBTREE, criteria, attributes) # Print the results to the console results = [entry for dn, entry in result if isinstance(entry, dict)] print results # Now that we're done (failed or not), release the connection finally: l.unbind() This is mostly LDAP specific and not Python, but here's a brief rundown on how it works. Check the documentation at http://www.python-ldap.org/doc/html/ldap.html for specifics. Once you've established a connection, this is the method that's doing all the heavy lifting LDAPObject.search_s(base, scope[, filterstr='(objectClass=*)']) Everything inside the () is pure LDAP syntax, not Python. I've described above what each option does, except for the scope. While the base is "Where do I start searching?" the scope is "How far do I search?" You have three options: Base (only search at the same level as the base), OneLevel (search one level down) and SubTree (search everything beneath the base). Experiment around with different options. There are a whole range of things you can use in the search filter, amounting to pretty much any attribute an object may have. As long as you're only using the "search" function, you can't do any harm. Oh, and when you're using "try" always have an "except" in there to handle when there ARE errors. Otherwise, if something goes wrong you'll have no idea what happened. 
It's just inconsistent to me, to keep reposting the image in question, that people are saying caused these guys so much grief, as if it will never cause them grief again. "The Damage is already done" is a -terrible- argument when you're talking about a damaging image.
Well, if you don't *have* an asshole, why not be one! ;-) Edit: just in case it's not 100% clear, I'm in full agreement with LightWolfCavalry's position, and you should go read [their](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singular_they) comment history on the matter.
Me neither. Let's hope we sink back into obscurity soon :-D 
Thanks, I assumed it was probably something like this... though I feel like in years past they have that worked out up front. At any rate, 54 on pyvideo.org now and presumably more coming. Thanks everyone!
I understand where you are coming from, but this *isn't* an inherently embarrassing image -- it is just a normal, everyday picture of a couple of guys at a conference; it only became a damaging picture when it was used by a particular person to actively damage the people in it. If we caught the two guys transdressing on a dare and they were obviously hugely embarrassed about being pictured that way then I would agree with you that it would be better not to keep exposing people to it, but that isn't the case here. Honestly, what I took from the picture wasn't that there was anything wrong with the guys but that Adira was a jerk for taking an unsuspected picture of the two guys with her phone like she did and then using it to publicly shame them. Finally, fair point on the "the damage is already done remark"; I suppose a better way of elucidating my point is that by this point seeing the picture once more is unlikely to make them feel any worse than they already do. So in short, I agree with you that it is important to be considerate, it's just that it isn't clear to me that it is a particularly big deal in this case, especially since the takeaway was *not* that there was something wrong with the guys in the picture but that Adria was acting completely inappropriately by tweeting this picture for the purpose of publicly shaming them --- that is, it is how she tagged it that was inappropriate, not the picture itself.
http://scipy-lectures.github.com/intro/matplotlib/matplotlib.html#figures-subplots-axes-and-ticks
* https://code.google.com/p/scitools/ * https://code.google.com/p/scitools/wiki/EasyvizDocumentation
They weren't making shitty jokes, she was looking to fabricate controversy. Apparently too stupid to understand what "forking his repo" means she imagined sexual connotation. WTF. And they chuckled at "dongle"? *HOW DARE THEY!* No woman would ever find the word funny, because women are innocent flowers!
No, she posted the image to twitter first. She didn't contact the organizers, the organizers noticed her tweet and had to contact her over this BS.
These kinds of people are fast to start smear campaigns, and since most people are dumb, some still believe the bullshit.
where is the who the hell cares stalker bot? you guys go togteher :(
really enjoyed this - immediately shared with my team.
once is sufficient for it to be harassment. How many times does a person have to have their genitals fondled for it to be harassment? Just Once.
very informative and nice examples. it seems the talk is not up on pyvideo.org (yet?) could someone plz link the slides? *edit* helped myself -&gt; https://speakerdeck.com/pyconslides/transforming-code-into-beautiful-idiomatic-python-by-raymond-hettinger
in this sense: http://pyvideo.org/search?models=videos.video&amp;q=Raymond+Hettinger
The whole 'straight white male' thing is nothing more than a tactic for shutting down an argument. "My argument is terrible, but you're opinion is invalid because you're a straight white male." I think it's kind of revolting that the dialog over oppression has devolved to the point where people are arguing not about ideas but about who is the most oppressed and therefore qualified to hold an opinion. 
Very good presentation. Lots of tips for day-to-day coding.
Oh man, that simultaneous updating of multiple variables .. I was bashing my head thinking that there MUST be a better way of solving and updating physics variables, and there it is! I feel like I've learned a new language, I've been holding onto C for so long. Are there any books or more videos with this sort of stuff?
That was wonderful, I was wondering about the "right" way to write a @cache decorator!
Agreed. I got incredibly motivated by Alex's talk, and I left the conference shortly after he gave it as it was the highlight for me. Lots of ideas around how iterative development might play in my day-to-day work.
This was probably my favorite talk of the whole conference. So much knowledge packed into such a short presentation.
Nice job missing the point, doofus.
Thank you! With that help, I've been able to get what I need with the following code: l = ldap.initialize("ldap://site.domain") try: l.protocol_version = ldap.VERSION3 l.set_option(ldap.OPT_REFERRALS, 0) l.simple_bind_s("username@site.domain", "password") basedn = "dc=site, dc=domain" scope = ldap.SCOPE_SUBTREE filter = "(&amp;(objectClass=computer)(name=MYHOST01))" attributes = ['dn'] result = l.search_s(basedn, scope, filter, attributes) print(result[0][0]) except ldap.LDAPError as e: print(e)
I sincerely doubt you're paying enough to attain "works perfectly." NASA doesn't joke around with the software when missions and lives are on the line, yet even with billion dollar budgets and strict testing regimes they have bugs. You can read about what it takes to get their bug counts down to the double and single digits [here](http://www.fastcompany.com/28121/they-write-right-stuff). 
I think in a couple of places he didn’t go as far as he could have done with the examples. That was one. Another was on the slide “Call a function until a sentinel value”, where he might have added a final step to simplify blocks = [] for block in iter(partial(f.read, 32), ''): blocks.append(block) into blocks = list(iter(partial(f.read, 32), '')) That would have been more consistent with a theme he mentions elsewhere, adopting a more declarative style, but I figure it wasn’t the point he was trying to make in that particular part of his presentation. BTW, he also had a couple of extra examples at the ends of slides that he glossed over in the presentation but you can see in the deck that DukeNucleus linked to.
lots of good choices already listed. also check out pyvot from microsoft (free/oss): http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oi3QKuFugWk available at http://pytools.codeplex.com.
I'd like to collaborate with someone just for the sake of coding collaboration. If you have a project idea or one you are currently working on I'd love to join. The only other "collaboration" I worked on was OpenAnt and it was more of a lone programming task in disguise (I think many open source projects are like this?)
Thanks for these tips. Any idea if the same fixes work with python-2.7.x ? Getting a copy of VC9 / VS2008 out of microsoft is getting increasingly difficult, yet there is no information that I can find about building py-2.7 extensions with VS2012.
My local user group, Orlando PUG: http://orlandopython.com/ Sigh.
CherryPy is awesome. I use it every day at my work and it's a pleasure to work with!
You helped me a lot with that, thanks. I made a bunch of changes and started commenting everything out (not finished yet) and I removed the GLOBAL_VARIABLES module completely. Also I got rid of the 'from x import *' statements. However, I won't change the names of the variables as I like how they are named but I'll use pep8 as a reference for the future. One thing I also want to care of is the longer lines, I'll try to break them correctly soon. I started this project to practice coding, that's why it isn't perfect in the first place. But I'm getting better and better. :) * Here is an update with first game objects and a basic enemy class: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0XixVkq3Iyg * The new code is avaible in the github repository. https://github.com/skoam/fumiko-pyg.git thank you
What is the relationship Chaco vs. matplotlib? Are they competitors/alternatives, or do they serve alternative purposes ?
Actually it wasn't my intention to have people contribute to the code. It's still my game but I want people who want to have a look at the source code to be able to do so. and basic class making is what I do. don't get you there. On the other hand you have a point there, it would be a nice idea to create an open source platformer for people to join coding. Like battle for wesnoth, just in another way. But I'm not interested in people arguing about which coding style is the best and what to use and what not to. It makes me want to vomit. :(
Great video. I wrote up something in a similar vein [here](http://markdunne.net/a-quick-introduction-to-python/). It's aimed more at python beginners with some experience in compiled languages and works through how you might first think to implement a solution then how you probably should implement it in Python. Take a look if you want.
After this talk, he became my personal hero ;-)
Probably a silly question but as somebody who use flask , I would be interested in somebody's opinion on CherryPy vs Flask.
my_brain |= {ignored, redirect_out}
"The PyCon Code of Conduct was tested twice that I know of, and it worked well. There is an internet uproar going on that might suggest otherwise. But if you read the two posts by PyCon staff about what actually happened, you will see that conference staff dealt quite effectively and respectfully with both situations." Is it really necessary to have a blog post about every incident that happens at a conference that hundreds of people are attending?
Disclaimer: Noob here. He introduced the `for… else` construct by writing a `find()` function. The original looks like this: def find(seq, target): found = False for i, value in enumerate(seq): if value == tgt: found = True break if not found: return -1 return i His alteration looks like this: def find(seq, target): for i, value in enumerate(seq): if value == tgt: break else: return -1 return i I would have written it the following way: def find(seq, target): for i, value in enumerate(seq): if value == tgt: return i return -1 I'm aware he wanted to introduce the `for… else` construct, but is there another reason for not doing it my way? Besides that, great talk from an absolutely excellent, engaging speaker. Thanks for sharing, OP!
I came into this via Vaadin https://vaadin.com/home since I found myself writing more and more python application code rather than java. I have only briefly looked at pyjs so I could be wrong but in pyjs it looks to me that all your code runs in the client unless you explicetly write code that executes on the server side and have your pyjs client code talk to the server, While muntjac, almost everything happens on the server side via json and the only thing happening on the client side is the UI presentation. 
Can we get back to developing software yet?
yeah imgur isn't going to scrape itself. :)
what's silly about your question is that you can answer it yourself by spending a couple hours with it. pip install cherrpy but as @sigzero said, your SOL if you need py3 with flask for the moment, cherrypy supported py3 almost as soon as everyone agreed on pep 3333. 
I can do hello world apps in most popular frameworks in couple of hours but this unfortunately says little about framework in production-ready environment. How difficult are difficult things , what are common pitfalls etc? But let's drop it here. 
What you said I find very offensive and I'll pursue every avenue to have your fired from your day job over it. Don't think you can come in here and refer to the sexual act of 'scraping' without an uproar, mister.
TIL: [ewww](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=scrape)
In fairness, so would I, but it was more a matter of trying to introduce the construct than anything. The one thing about for..else is that usually I want something like that only when the thing I'm iterating over has no elements at all, which for..else is useless for as you need to explicitly break out of the loop to prevent the else branch from executing. for..else really leaves me conflicted.
Exactly the same for me (although I haven't been to PyCon...), most inspiring and confidence boosting piece of talk. I've rearranged many "things" on my desk and feels so much better now delivering, rather that fighting for perfection in every single bit of code and design. **Highly recommended** for everyone! 
&gt; He mentions in the talk that the example is illustrative and that you could return early, but he used it partly because it was Knuth's example. Ah, you're right, of course. I really need to work on my attention span, it seems…
&gt; NASA doesn't joke around with the software when missions ...and not everybody is NASA. 
You need to compile against the 2008 runtime for 2.7, as far as I know. I noticed a thread on python-dev about the problems with getting VS2008. According to [this message](http://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-dev/2013-March/124639.html), you now need to download "Microsoft Windows SDK for Windows 7 and .NET Framework 3.5 SP1", which includes the right version of the compiler. Of course, as an open source advocate, I'm obliged to point out the value of being able to use any version of software whenever you want. ;-)
I think it's like making a record of court proceedings: it's not something a lot of people are interested in, but we consider it important that this isn't kept secret.
There's no way in hell I'm clicking that
I can download 2.7 and try a similar method when I get to my home computer. My guess is that 2.7 uses VS2008, and you would do the same steps as above, but change "VS100COMNTOOLS" to "VS90COMNTOOLS."
good idea.
I think one of the big reasons for doing it the way he did was that you're not limited to short-circuiting and just returning the object. If you wanted to say augment the object and weren't too fond of doing it within a forloop, then you would want to use the for..else. It's more idiomatic in that sense. However, your example is obvious the way most of us would *want* to write it.
Ah, right. I tend to forget that the examples given are simplified for illustrative purposes.
Why can't we all just be friends? Please?
control-d works in ipython, python, bash, and probably a lot of other interpreters, too.
They kicked someone out for smoking weed? That's harsh. 
Let me just go ahead and distill my point down to one sentence for you: you (and all the other folks in this thread of the opinion that this gal is a "bitch" and a "whore" and a "slut" and whatever else) shouldn't be surprised that calling a woman a bitch might get you called sexist in return, because it's not how you perceive your insult that matters-it's how others do. Alright, I'm done trying to teach a troll how to feminist. 
I freaking hate posts like that... "Everyone is talking about what happened". What the hell happened!?! Is it possible to imagine that a large majority of the internet hasn't heard? A refresher perhaps? An intro to what you're talking about? Ugh.
Think of the children! 
I agree that getting frequently and awkwardly hit on would be a bad experience. I also think that making a single joke about a man having a big dongle to a friend and accidentally having someone overhear is nothing like specifically hitting on someone and to try and connect the two through implication as you have is ludicrous. If someone had mentioned to another person, sitting next to me, that they voted for some president that I consider to have damaged rights for women, which I find highly offensive, that does not make it ok for me to post a photo of them, it does not make the offense I feel worthy of the attention of the organizers, etc. And that's for something truly worthy of feeling offense over. Not someone making one of the most standard puns about the word "dongle" that has ever been made.
What's wrong with using "+" for string joins? edit: he mentions this by the end of the video. + has a quadratic behavior.
Your speciecism disgusts me ;)
And yes, that's me giving the talk.
The women hitting on you in the teachers' lounge are not the same person as Adria Richards. So whose double standard is it? 
I'm not sure I understand your question. My point is that, in PC-corporate-America, women say what they want, and men speak at their own risk. 
oh this is the whole "if you choose not to decide you still have made a choice" ? thing. :) 
The same is true at the state-level conferences. If you live in an area with a software industry then I think you'll find that local user groups tend to dig deeper, at least in describing what people are using and building at work. But they tend to be professional groups, with everything that entails. 
One is designed to create static plots (matplotlib) the other is designed to create dynamic/interactive plots (chaco). There is some overlap between the two. Matplotlib is also a bit older.
I mean that any time you have a framework (here is a big engine, now plug your stuff into the designated sockets) that is an opinion on how to structure things. 
I will simply accknowledge that R kicks Python's ass when it comes to plotting. In this, Python is the wannabe poser and R is the new black. [Hadley Wickham](http://ggplot2.org/) gives me a big nerdy, visualization hardon.
Ah, I understand. I'm not saying *"Women"* act as a bloc. I'm talking about the current spirit of the times. It's the double standard of our national public sphere. (And as abstract as a concept as it is, there certainly is such a thing.) It's our social discourse or mores on a national level. As to the rednecks and the suburbanites, what I'm talking about is analogous to a bunch of suburbanites entering the redneck world, carrying on in a way not much different from the rednecks, but then crying foul at the rednecks' carrying on. Either we're *all* going to act like uptight Victorians, or we're *all* going to have allow for a little leeway and unprofessional behavior. But the worst thing we can do is act like it's a big deal because some little darling pretends to blush because she heard a couple of arrested adolescents carrying on like Beavis and Butthead about "dongles." I'm sorry, but I'm unsympathetic to such slight *slights.* Let me know when a couple of yahoos are playing "Would-you-fuck-that?" out loud and in public at the next convention. We ought to set the barometer a little higher when we're talking about "hostile" environments.
R's plotting is like a whole spectrum containing and consuming what Python is capable of. We are talking several magnitudes of ascendance. It has changed the way I think about visualizing data.
Also if you haven't checked out Cheetah, you really should. It's the cleanest templating language out there imo. So let's say in the edit() method in the example about you wanted to call the method some_function_common_amongst_settings_pages() from within Cheetah. When you create the template you can either include the method in the search list or give the template the reference to the method directly: def edit(self, url_id): template = Template(file='web_ui/html/settings/url.tmpl', searchList=[locals()]) template.do_function = self.some_function_common_amongst_settings_pages return template.respond) in the template file: &lt;table&gt; &lt;tr&gt; &lt;td&gt;$do_function()&lt;/td&gt; &lt;/tr&gt; &lt;/table&gt; BAM! the output of the Setting's some_function_common_amongst_settings_pages() method will now be placed right there in the template. But furthermore cheetah allows you execute virtually any python in the template. 
I'm really interested in the whole [rethinking grades 9-12](http://peak5390.wordpress.com/2013/03/17/lightning-talk-abolishing-the-traditional-high-school-structure/) project, although adoption in the U.S. would be impossibly slow, only being possible at all in charter schools.
Awesome!
And here I just blocked Ukraine's IP blocks via IP Tables. I'll have to look into this further. Could come in handy! 
CherryPy is less featured than Flask, in the sense that Flask has an opinion about how to construct an application whereas CherryPy doesn't care. Usually starting with CherryPy will require a bit more work from your part as you have a bar Python application server. However CherryPy is flexible enough to (almost) never got in your way, meaning you don't have to learn a lot of things before writing actual application code. Overall, it's not better or worse, just a different route.
Meh, it's just an urbandictionary link.
You may want to test path coverage, and it may be more obvious to the reader of your code if you put it into a more basic way. In his example, I actually would have done: def find(seq, target): retval = -1 for i, value in enumerate(seq): if value == target: retval = i break return retval This way, you know what the default value is upfront making it easier to digest as you're reading the code. In addition you can see the instances where the return value has changed. It may not be as pretty, but I might argue that it is easier for more people to understand when they read the code. Beautiful is great until you're sacrificing readability. The last thing you want to do when you're trying to find a bug or maintain the code is think harder than you need to to figure out why the code isn't doing what you want or to figure out how to modify the code to do what you want to do.
Yet another one ... but why? If you miss something in the official tutorial/docs then report a bug or fork and make a pull request.
While we're on the subject, does someone have a book to recommend for python optimization?
Fair point, but I counter that in most fields, it's the loud, obnoxious fringe that shapes public opinion more than the reasonable people. Just look at all the hate spewed toward feminism just from this one incident. One nutjob who calls herself a feminist does something stupid and self-righteous, and now this is an issue of feminism. Bullshit. That's not what feminism is....but that's the public perception of it. Look at all the hate toward Christianity on Reddit. Can I blame them? No. Christianity has been co-opted by horrible people, and normal Christians have to take that heat all the time now. Can I blame Adria for becoming more self-righteous and more confident that she's fighting the good fight when faced with death threats? No, I can't. And she will. And so will everyone who sides with her. And that's definitely undermining the position. Guilt by association is a logical fallacy, absolutely, but we can't pretend it doesn't matter.
I'm actually troubled by the graphic nature of your response and would be tempted to report you to human resources if you were my office mate. Okay, I'm half-kidding. But thanks for "zeitgeist." I was trying to think of that word; *gestalt* popped into my head; I wasn't sure if that was the right word, so I looked it up and confirmed it wasn't; finally, I went with "spirit of the times." That's called middle age.
They *don't* have a point, and they *should* be ignored. I will not dispute that. That doesn't mean they *will* be ignored. You're being too idealistic. Perhaps you consider Adria part of fringe and unimportant, but she got this guy fired. That matters. You can't ignore that. People don't live in bubbles. It's like saying spam doesn't matter because you can just ignore it. If we didn't have effective spam filters, it would be impossible to read anything else. Similarly, nutjobs drown out reasonable people, and *that matters*.
Wow, that's quite a lot these days. How do you ever get anything done? I did some work for Tesco (national supermarket chain) and they have only 7 levels between the floor sweeper and the CEO's ivory tower.
Obvoiusly they knew, they just wanted some money
I used to only have 7 as well. Then we had a lot of downsizing and restructuring and now there are 9. I'm not joking and I don't know why or how that happened.
Alex Gaynor gave a related talk at PyCon this year, "So You Want To Write An Interpreter". Video: http://pyvideo.org/video/1694/so-you-want-to-write-an-interpreter Slide deck: https://speakerdeck.com/pyconslides/so-you-want-to-write-an-interpreter There's also a book The way I did it: I also made a couple programming languages out of big dumb text macro processors. I also cut my teeth on FORTH, and implemented a FORTH interpreter or two. FORTH is awfully simple, and exposes a lot of its internals to the FORTH programmer, so it was actually a pretty good place to start. There's a series of textbooks by Ronald Mak, "Writing Compilers and Interpreters"; the first was in C++ and the latest is in Java. I haven't read them but the reviews are okay.
This was actually extracted from a lighting talk at PyCon 2013 and a tutorial given at the PyCon Raspberry PI lab
&gt;The nutjobs are not here saying "Way to undermine your position, guys", it is you. You, the presumably sane person, have taken it upon yourself to carry on with their role in undermining that position. I don't see how criticizing and poking fun at nutjobs legitimizes them or carries on their role. I am genuinely confused as to your interpretation of that. Odds are I miscommunicated originally, as it was just a passing comment and I didn't expect it to provoke this much discussion (which I appreciate, by the way). I guess my basic points were: 1. People like this are idiots. 2. Making personal threats only makes her look better from a PR perspective, and can only make her more convinced that she's right (hence undermining their position). 3. It would be better for everyone if people did not act like that. I still stand by all of that. Anything beyond that, I really don't think I implied. Again, I don't see how I "carry on their role". &gt;Perhaps you do not live in your own bubble, yet, but if you allow everyone to have equal say in your bubble, you will easily be manipulated. It's not a matter of what I allow. It's not about me at all, really. Imagine for a moment that this incident results in a change of policy at PyCon (probably not significantly, but let's imagine). That would affect everyone regardless of who they individually choose to listen to. This is all a matter of PR. This is what I mean by "not in a bubble". TL;DR: Being a dick is bad.
I agree. All of the following are irrelevant under Python 3, because in Python 3 the original name thing does the right thing: - Replace `zip` with `izip` - Replace `range` with `xrange` - Replace `dict.items()` with `dict.iteritems()` If you made those changes to your code, you're just going to have to undo them again when you switch to Python 3 (and you will, eventually.) I mean, it's good advice if you are absolutely stuck on Python 2.x, but it's kind of sad in that 2.x exposes all of those design mistakes that have since been fixed in 3. I'd like an asterisk next to the advice that says "or just use Python 3, where we fixed all this so you don't have to worry about it." 
What happened at PyCon? The same ol' boys will be boys atmosphere, until Adria Richards rightly stepped up. Ain't gonna be cool any more, slimeballs. 
Because of the lack of support for WSGI...
Oh God, I hope they don't figure out my name, too.
Has anyone seen a video surface of this talk yet?: https://us.pycon.org/2013/schedule/presentation/127/ I can't seen to find a blog or anything related to it. I wasn't able to attend but was most looking forward to this one. 
On the other hand, you have companies like Embarcadero who released their "FireMonkey" cross-platform framework along with their Delphi language/IDE. The OS X printing didn't work and a dive into the source code by one developer revealed nothing but stub code for the printing! 1.5 years after release FireMonkey is still buggy and missing functionality. Game releases are so bad one product was released without working mouse support - it was literally unusable out of the box. A game magazine changed its review policy to never review patched games - only as they were initially released - to try to halt this trend of "ship now, fix later" that had gone too far. If you buy a car, you don't expect GM to say "We know the radio's not working but we expect to have a fix for that next month and you can come into the dealership and have it replaced," do you? Iterative development is fine for free, open source, non-enterprise software. It's not good for commercial software which is in competition with other products and which needs to have the trust of its purchasers. If you release software that's "good enough" and your competition releases software that's better, you'll lose sales and probably customers (I wouldn't buy another product from Embarcadero again, for example). You'll get mediocre reviews and word of mouth online. A product should never be released if there are known bugs in the product. Selling something is like a contract, a promise: "This product A will do B, C, and D." If you knowingly ship something that doesn't, that's lying. Even if you unknowingly ship it in that state, it's a breach of contract. When I was in a position to control commercial software product development, the policy was "Any tech support call that determines the problem lies with the product - bug, unclear/wrong documentation, etc. - will be fixed, for free, for the life of the product." That certainly encourages software to be shipped in a working state :-) and also engenders a spirit of trust and loyalty with the consumer. I've been on the receiving end of "deploy SOMETHING, fix bugs, improve" - we consumers call it "paying to be beta testers" and don't appreciate it. So to directly address what you wrote: if it doesn't do what you say, don't sell it. That's what "works perfectly" means. NASA doesn't ship early, ship often with their code and code which customers depend on shouldn't either. Again, this type of development is fine for collaborative community projects but not for professional work. 
I think the parent did a nice job using satire to point out the gravity of the clusterfuck. Someday I hope that we can all come to a compromised understanding of where the taboo subjects are and I hope forking dongles makes the cut. But that day is not today. Maybe next week. 
But that's no excuse to ship now, fix later either. 
Right. That's exactly what happened. Now PyCon has been politicized by commissars just like every fucking thing else. Great.
It was cancelled, actually.
Don't scrape me bro!
She can put Simple CV on my Raspberry Pi any time ... &lt;ban&gt;
Damn, really? I've been waiting for two months to hear it, I have a huge interest in using python to develop for the windows 8 app store and I can't find an ounce of information on it on the web. 
Another related [talk](https://speakerdeck.com/pyconslides/numba-a-dynamic-python-compiler-for-science-by-travis-e-oliphant-jon-riehl-mark-florisson-and-siu-kwan-lam) I liked was on Numba which showed how you could add decorators that "intercept" the bytecode and compile it down to performant low-level code optimized for math-heavy computation, and got me interested in LLVM and more generally techniques for improving performance by substituting something for the Python interpreter.
Yeah I was actually thinking of going to it also. I went to the interpreters one instead, which was bad. You can still check out pytools, though, I guess.
I have been tinkering with it, the problem is it doesn't really address anything related to developing for the app store. If you grab VS2012 express it comes with the win 8 app store SDK and you get quite a bit of handholding for the initial structure and everything. I've read you can wrap python using c# and include it in your app package, but I am not experienced enough to take this route and was really looking forward to this discussion. Hopefully they will do a blog post about it instead. 
I forked your repo, you should be honored.
I guess I just have a bad habit of addressing people by their real name. either that or I am really creepy. In which case let me find your address... 
That's weird.. I wrapped both into functions and called the disassembler (import dis; dis.dis(f)). This was the output: 1) IF-else dis.dis(f) 0 LOAD_CONST 1 (1) 3 LOAD_FAST 0 (d) 6 COMPARE_OP 6 (in) 9 POP_JUMP_IF_FALSE 20 12 LOAD_FAST 0 (d) 15 LOAD_CONST 1 (1) 18 BINARY_SUBSCR 19 RETURN_VALUE 20 LOAD_CONST 2 (2) 23 RETURN_VALUE 2) GET method dis.dis(g) 0 LOAD_FAST 0 (d) 3 LOAD_ATTR 0 (get) 6 LOAD_CONST 1 (1) 9 LOAD_CONST 2 (2) 12 CALL_FUNCTION 2 15 RETURN_VALUE So no clue.. I don't see anything particularly slow in the get method.. 
No! Dramacon 2013 isn't over yet!
Anyway, my reason to say that is: many people join Flask's IRC channel and say *"I'm doing this third party tutorial and this and that doesn't work! HELP!"*. Are the supporters there supposed to know each and every tutorial or are they supposed to send them away and slowly become a seemingly unfriendly channel?
Oh go fork a dongle.
To be fair, that attitude is a real thing, but Adria Richards isn't helping. You don't have to be an MRA to disagree with her.
Version of Python you tested in? Edit: What OS?
details: + has a linear behavior; concatenation using a loop has a quadratic behavior.
&gt;I don't see how criticizing and poking fun at nutjobs legitimizes them or carries on their role. It's because you assumed the nutjobs spoke for anyone who wasn't on Adria's side. "Way to undermine your position guys." So because some crazy people made death threats, I'm not allowed to think Adria was in the wrong here and should not have abused her social media fame to attack a guy with 3 kids to support who ended up getting fired? I'm not responsible for the death threats. Adria, on the other hand, *is* responsible for her actions which caused that guy and his kids real harm in the form of losing his job.
Wow, that's bad code.
well &gt;&gt;&gt; timeit('d_get(1, 2)', 'd = {};d_get=d.get') 0.06462883949279785 &gt;&gt;&gt; timeit('GET(d, 1, 2)', 'd = {}; GET = dict.get') 0.12403988838195801 
why is python3 so god damn slow compared to python 2 in teh first example?
2.7.3!
&gt;What you aren't understanding is that software bugs are inevitable. So's death, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't try to do all we can to avoid it. :-) &gt;...but it's nearly impossible to get something perfect when working on &gt;various platforms, etc. But lowering standards, releasing product and hope to fix the problems later after users discover them doesn't necessarily follow. I can understand making this argument about *features*... in extreme cases, products are never considered "done" (Duke Nukem Forever comes to mind) but in regards to bugs I have a harder time agreeing. 
K, next step is to figure out if the OP's version is different. If so its possible something was changed or improved from 2.7.
To skip straight to Tavis' demo of Dragonfly: 8:34 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8SkdfdXWYaI#t=8m34s 
I did the speed test in 2.7.3 and got the same performance as OP. 
Alright... last hypothesis, operating system.
Obfuscated python code *is* possible!
You know what's worse than being banned from Pycon? Almost everything!
fuck yes. this is my first intro to CV, and this is amazing
If you care about such stuff you should really try pypy. It teaches "better" performance characteristics. (as in less accidental and more "what's easy")
As a homeoseksual Mexksocan I find that offensive.
Yeah, big overreaction. Who ever got fired for saying "dongle"?
This is looking damn interesting from the title alone. I shall take a much closer look tomorrow morning. :) 
&gt; The first code runs ma\_lookup twice, first from dict.\_\_contains\_\_ then from dict.\_\_getitem\_\_ The lookup only ever happens once. The lookup in \_\_contains\_\_ (which fails) in the faster example, or the lookup in get() in the slower example. &gt; It's worth mentioning, though, that the expression d.get itself, i.e. PyObject_GenericGetAttr(d, "get") is actually calling PyDict_GetItem to get the key "get" from the class dictionary of the dict type. It calls another internal function, dict\_get, as that is what is in the object's method map. In that function, it has to unpack a tuple of args, whereas the builtin \_\_getitem\_\_ call and \_\_contains\_\_ call for the dictionary object does not.
Ah, my bad. Looks like it goes [here](https://github.com/python-git/python/blob/715a6e5035bb21ac49382772076ec4c630d6e960/Objects/typeobject.c#L2470) to evaluate `d.get`.
Unfortunately, having this ridiculous "pycon code of conduct" in the first place is what leads to instances of exactly what happened. Instead of relying on adults behaving like adults, it provides an opportunity for adults to behave like children and then get all angsty about it citing violation of the code of conduct blah blah blah. This kind of faux political naus is rife within colleges/universities amongst young adults learning their way in the world and thinking this shit is important to growing up, and the internet has even more juvenile attendance who are even more easily manipulated into firing up their LOIC client and "doing good" by whatever cause has resonated with them. 
You don't have to use it just for programming; you can use it for more common tasks, such as basic browsing or text editing. Use &lt;n&gt; = TaskBar.SwitchToButtonNumber($1) pointerHere(); e.g. say “Use 3”. Activate the 3rd application in the taskbar. Show Desktop = {Win+d}; Window (Maximize=x | Minimize=n | Restore=r) = SendSystemKeys({Alt+Space}) $1; e.g. say “Window Maximize”. Window (Maximize=x) = SendSystemKeys({Alt+Space}) # windows menu x; # access key for maximize Switch Window = SendSystemKeys({Alt+Tab})pointerHere(); Switch Window = SendSystemKeys({Alt+Tab}) # switch window pointerHere(); # click to give it focus agoras|balisaur|capuchin|diluvia ... = {PageDown}; &lt;n&gt; := 0..100; &lt;direction&gt; := Left | Right | Up | Down; &lt;n&gt; &lt;direction&gt; = {$2_$1}; e.g. say “4 Down”. Output: {Down_4} “Down arrow” key 4 times. &lt;modifierKey&gt; := Shift | Control=Ctrl | Alt | Alternate=Alt | Win | Windows=Win; &lt;k&gt; := &lt;actionKeyNotArrow&gt; | &lt;characterKeyNotLetter&gt;; &lt;modifierKey&gt; &lt;k&gt; Times &lt;2to99&gt; = {$1+$2_$3}; e.g. say “Shift Up Times 8”. Output: {Shift+Up_8} Select 8 contiguous lines up.
quite impressive, but it seems like you almost have to learn a new language in order to use it. Give it a few more years and it might be commonplace though, I can definitely see how this could help my workflow.
A room full of people missed a perfect opportunity to shout out some malicious commands.
i know i'm a complete scrub, but the little unpacking tuples bit KABOOM
This will really bake your noodle. When you have an empty dict: **Python 2.7.3, IPython 0.13.1** In [1]: mydict = {} In [2]: %%timeit mydict[1] if 1 in mydict else 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 41.1 ns per loop In [3]: %%timeit mydict.get(1, 2) ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 84.2 ns per loop In [4]: %%timeit ...: try: ...: mydict.get(1) ...: except: ...: 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 87.9 ns per loop **Python 3.3.0, IPython 0.13.1** In [1]: mydict = {} In [2]: %%timeit ...: mydict[1] if 1 in mydict else 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 40.4 ns per loop In [3]: %%timeit ...: mydict.get(1, 2) ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 87.8 ns per loop In [4]: %%timeit ...: try: ...: mydict.get(1) ...: except: ...: 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 88.1 ns per loop When you actually have data in the dict, though: **Python 2.7.3, IPython 0.13.1** In [1]: mydict = {} In [2]: for f in range(100): mydict[f] = f*f ...: In [3]: %%timeit mydict[1] if 1 in mydict else 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 82.6 ns per loop In [4]: %%timeit mydict.get(1, 2) ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 87.3 ns per loop In [5]: %%timeit try: mydict.get(1) except: 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 89.8 ns per loop **Python 3.3.0, IPython 0.13.1** In [1]: mydict = {} In [2]: for f in range(100): mydict[f] = f*f ...: In [3]: %%timeit mydict[1] if 1 in mydict else 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 67.2 ns per loop In [4]: %%timeit mydict.get(1, 2) ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 88 ns per loop In [5]: %%timeit try: mydict.get(1) except: 2 ...: 10000000 loops, best of 3: 90.3 ns per loop 
It's okay crazy raging feminist was just on the loose no big deal. If those dudes in fact were making comments like that, they were in the wrong too. But all parties acted like children.
I should point out that you don't need to use a crazy made up language like I do. I just found it easier for coding and didn't mind memorizing it. Scripting apps with normal English words, such as in bboyjkang's examples, works quite well.
Don't worry, my wife tries that all the time.
...or...help them?
Oooo, I did not know about named tuples. Time to refactor...
I seem to have missed this whole thing; do you have an explanatory link I can read? 
http://m.techcrunch.com/2013/03/21/a-dongle-joke-that-spiraled-way-out-of-control/
It's not clear to me why you thought someone posting a link to my project was a request for a code review, but regardless, perhaps next time you should give the benefit of the doubt and consider that the choices made were deliberate? In this case, the code is written primarily with performance, memory utilisation and minimum dependencies in mind (so that pawk can be deployed as a single file). Thus the chained "if" statements in apply(), thus the use of optparse, thus *not* using a more "functional" style. And the use of "is" is quite deliberate too. Additionally, I'm well aware of Python's functional capabilities, and there are two reasons not to use them in this case: buffering is not an option, so the non-iterator variants are out, and the iterator variants are slower than unwound loops. All of your statements excluding lack of docstrings, which is not invalid, are misguided at best or incorrect at worst, in this context. As it seems to be the thing to do, I've got some completely unsolicited advice for you: think before you speak. 
What makes you think I am not aware of docstrings? The module docstring is deliberate. Also, excluding line length (which again is a deliberate choice), the code is completely PEP8 compliant, so I'm not sure what you're even talking about.
Yes! It runs on pypy, and is about twice as fast as CPython. I haven't done any complex benchmarks, but for simple cases it seems to be a bit slower than awk...but you can do anything that Python can do, and use any of its modules :)
Thanks! Yeah, I think it's my best talk in years.
Not at the actual event. At least none that I saw. Plenty of people partied away in the hotel bars.
What are you using for voice recognition?
It would be interesting to compare both methods against a dict subclass with a \_\_missing\_\_ method.
support for websockets or socket.io etc would be crucial nowadays
It does support bare WebSockets through [ws4py](https://github.com/Lawouach/WebSocket-for-Python).
"SUDO RM -RF ~/*"
And now to compare `d_get` with `d[1] if 1 in d else 2`...
I've no idea about iMessage but you can send text messages quite easily. I've used [nexmo](https://www.nexmo.com/documentation/libs/index.html#python) when messing about, they give you some free to get started.
http://ios-rev.tumblr.com. I don't think this exists, but the link here show someone reverse engineering Apple's push service and there is a little about iMessage. 
I would probably make a wrapper and use applescript. here's a link right here. https://discussions.apple.com/thread/4322806?start=0&amp;tstart=0
Did you guys check out Facebook's Thrift for writing backend services? Any reason for coming up with your own protocol for them?
I'm pretty wedded to Linux. Could I use Dragon in a Windows VM and everything else in Linux? Is that what you are doing? Thanks for a great talk!
"slap!"
I used to wonder what friendship could be. Oops! Wrong subreddit! ;-)
I used CherryPy in my last job for ~5 years. Multiple CP instances managed both external and internal high-availability HTTP services. It never got in the way, and none of our outages were ever CherryPy's fault. I can't think of a higher compliment. If there's any shortcoming, it's that the community doesn't have a huge ecosystem of free and commercial addons and extensions a la RoR. Even if you don't use them, they keep a wider visibility on the project as a whole which keeps new blood flowing in. CP doesn't have a steady supply of new blood.
In all seriousness, I really enjoyed David Beazley's talk on Python: A Toy Language. I envy him in the sense that I'm not bold enough to explore Python usage in CNC machines like he did. It was a good "teach by example" talk about curiosity and creativity. 
I am very happy she was fired. She should not have done what she did. Hopefully she serves as an example for all of an inappropriate way to deal with comments one finds distasteful. 
Get out, brony! ^^Until ^^you ^^all ^^shared ^^its ^^magic ^^with ^^me.
It's like the highest praise there is
The people who lost their shit are the people who DDOSed SendGrid and pretty much everyone in [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/1am37v/technology_evangelist_adria_richards_tweets/), for example.
It doesn't matter, `dict.get` is more pythonic. If you want perf, use PyPy.
I agree with you that FTP is a little on the slow side, but some commenters on /r/raspberry_pi are having no issue streaming 1080p HD video to their DLNA or XMBC devices, saying it plays "perfectly smooth"
If you're going the text message route, heres' a list of SMS gateways so you can pretty much send text messages around the world for free: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_SMS_gateways But iMessage... I didn't think it was reverse engineered and was proprietary of Apple.
hmmmm i was not involved in that thread. so are trying some guilt by association crap on me or something? I mean, someone makes a satirical joke and you choose to use it as a platform to give your opinion on things I don't recall asking you for. What you bring up has been brought up all over the internet so what's your point for bringing it up again here? Are you trying to say that somehow binaryrockstar and my satirical commentary is somehow relevant to that or not. 
I'm not talking about *you personally*. I am talking about the whole situation. Calm down. &gt; give your opinion on things I don't recall asking you for Wait a minute, did you originally reply to me or did I reply to you? Because I'm looking at the thread history and it really looks like you replied to me after I was already talking about this. But maybe I'm a little confused. Should we fight about whose opinion was more unsolicited?
I want to be able to make notification center items! I made a work productivity timer (work 20 mins, play 20 mins) back when I had Ubuntu, and it worked with Ubuntu's notifications. But after I switched back to OSX, the modules I found didn't work.
Just as a note, those two operations are not exactly the same in certain situations. It doesn't matter much in this example since the `else` part is a constant. If it were a function call or any other expression, that expression would be evaluated when using `.get`, but not when using `if-else` due to short-circuiting. d.get('key', Item()) would call `Item` even if `'key' in d`. Whereas, d['key'] if 'key' in d else Item() would not call `Item` if `'key' in d`.
&gt; Should we fight.... now it seems you are just baiting for arguments. I'm trying to figure out why you seemed to choose to use a bit of satirical commentary to bring up the whole clusterfuck. And so I was trying to figure out whether it is because you think this thread is contributing to the problem or not. If thats not your motivation fine. You've now said it wasn't me personally so that's been cleared up. Personally, I'm tired of reading about and discussing the timeline/details of the whole clusterfuck. It is clear to me that there's a real problem that needs to be solved but discussing what happened and why isn't going to get us anywhere. My interpretation of the satirical commentary is that the PC Pendulum can swing too far as everyone is offended by something (scraping) and thus if we are to interact in a PC way as to not offend, there will be no interaction period and no community. So, if we are to discuss anything about the situation, I would rather spending my energy being productive rather than being upset about things that have already happened. 
&gt; I'm trying to figure out why you seemed to choose to use a bit of satirical commentary to bring up the whole clusterfuck. Because it was relevant. BinaryRockStar's "satirical commentary" was "satirically" suggesting that it was the offended party who got the guy fired, when it was not; that wasn't even her goal. I doubt it ever even occurred to her. *My* point was that the narrative in everyone's heads seems to be that Adria set out to get a guy fired because he said "dongle," which is wrong. &gt; spending my energy being productive Well, that's the thing, what productive is kind of depends on how people view what happened, and what people think happened. If they think a woman got offended over something stupid and set out to get a guy fired, what's considered "productive" is going to be very different than if their view is that a woman was offended over something perhaps-not-entirely-stupid, but by speaking out she unleashed a chain of events that ended (so far) with her termination. What really happened was certainly between those two extremes, somewhere, but whatever narrative ends up dominant is going to have a big effect on how things like this go down in the future.
You could say the same thing about putting the effort into emacs or VIM
http://amandablumwords.wordpress.com/2013/03/21/3/ hits most of the highlights.
I'm not sure, but I got this from a developer: &gt;There is definitely interest here in good native voice recognition &gt;for Linux but the quality bar is very high: we depend on voice &gt;recognition for our livelihoods and can't afford to use less than the &gt;best tools we can get. Using Windows and DNS to control remote Linux &gt;boxes is the bar to beat today for controlling Linux systems.
&gt; Give it a few more years and it might be commonplace though, I can definitely see how this could help my workflow.
I've only learned a small piece of Python and list comprehensions are very interesting to me. How would you do a list comprehension that is a bit more complex? Like an if/elif/else instead of just an if? Or would you even create a list comprehension for that?
I'm sorry if I have caused any offense: that wasn't my intention... I thought that by virtue of your code being on github, it was up for public review.
ok NOW I SEE. you are taking the satirical commentary to be specific to an event and I'm taking it to illustrate the state of things. micro vs. macro. fair enough. And I seriously doubt that the commentary ends up being the dominant narrative. this after all a very small subreddit.
Maybe on Twitter, but her [blog post](http://butyoureagirl.com/14015/forking-and-dongle-jokes-dont-belong-at-tech-conferences/) goes so much farther than that. She seems to think this is a weight of the world issue and she was doing a hero's work. What really gets me is that the joke was in no way misogynistic. Further, even if it did make her uncomfortable, she seems like a big girl that could turn and quietly say "please stop". 
... or just use SQLAlchemy. Too bad they never replaced their shitty (sorry..) SQL/ORM lib with SQLAlchemy, it's one of the reasons I don't use Django nowadays ...
&gt;Using Windows and DNS to control remote Linux boxes is the bar to beat today for controlling Linux systems. Thanks. It's not clear how to interpret that. If they are using Windows literally remotely as opposed to virtually remotely as a guest operating system, that may mean that DNS doesn't work well on a guest operating system. But for all I know when they say "remotely" they may mean to include "virtually". 
I don't think it goes beyond a "simple if", but you can certainly nest many loops in there without a problem. grid = [(x,y,z) for x in range(3) for y in range(3) for z in range(3)] This creates a list of tuples for positions in a 3x3x3 space.
You should be able to do something like the following: &gt;&gt;&gt; baz = range(15) &gt;&gt;&gt; foo = [bar**2 if bar &lt; 5 else (bar-1)**2 if bar &lt; 10 else bar+2 for bar in baz] &gt;&gt;&gt; foo [0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16] Granted, that's relying on the "value1 if condition else value2" syntax, not the list comprehension syntax.
If the list comprehension is too complex it is often better expressed by a classical loop.
SQL Alchemy does have native support for hStore and connection pooling, but still doesn't support the broad array of datatypes and functionality thats within Postgres. 
As someone who keeps needing to be shown stuff like this in order to make it stick, this was great! A short and simple review.
Yeah I can see how anything more complex becomes long-winded and looks sloppy.
Same question here. I am also curious about calling in for the 50% discount that the audience member brought up: http://youtu.be/8SkdfdXWYaI?t=24m50s What version should I be asking about :D Home vs premium?
 In [10]: timeit('d[1] if 1 in d else 2', 'd = {}') Out[10]: 0.06360912322998047 In [11]: timeit('d_get(1, 2)', 'd = {};d_get=d.get') Out[11]: 0.09076905250549316 python 2.7.3
Current project is using dicts of size 25 and 400. I'll poke at that and maybe graph it 
'Fraid not . . . http://docs.python.org/2/reference/expressions.html#list-displays Looks like it only allows nested ifs, no elses.
Yeah, not proud of that one . . .
That is suuuper cool. Very nice demo. 
&gt; - Issue #4363: The uuid.uuid1() and uuid.uuid4() functions now work even if the ctypes module is not present. Now we can finally use Requests in embedded cpython.
My guess is that the voice recognition would not be as good as Dragon's product.
MKL is a linear algebra library that implements BLAS and bits of LAPACK. It won't be used for elementwise operations or reductions, only things like `dot()` and the contents of `numpy.linalg`.
I've installed Numba without Anaconda, but I had to build my own copy of LLVM and llvmpy. Not hard, but not trivial.
Not true. A lot of things have been hand-tuned in Cython to be faster than NumPy's (correct but general-purpose) code.
Exactly what I thought :)
To be clear: what we're implementing in Theano is closer to symbolic differentiation than what is typically meant by "automatic differentiation". I'm told (by some physics chap at SciPy 2011) that there are certain complicated functions that our approach cannot handle efficiently but one or the other mode AD can handle. Personally I'd really like to see Theano move toward leveraging what Numba's doing. For one thing, we really should be using Mark's minivect to optimize our elementwise operations. Our approach of calling out to gcc on tempfiles has never been quite satisfactory, and our code generators for things like advanced indexing are still a gigantic pain and not fully NumPy-mirroring.
As a Theano user and contributor, this excites the hell out of me.
There are already lots of ways, but compyte's goal is to make interoperability a reality. Also, GPUs aren't a magic bullet. Many common numerical algorithms will not see a significant speed-up. If your bottleneck is large-scale embarassingly parallel elementwise computation or linear algebra then you stand to benefit.
I find Django ORM far better for RAD than SQLAlchmey. Django's documentation is also far clearer.
I won't be able to look at MySQL and MS SQL Server the same again. MySQL is especially far behind.
Occasionally useful, but I generally avoid list comprehensions as I find they make the code harder to read and comprehend. I also have a minor aversion to functional programming in general. Good link though.
I see zip() returning just [(0, 0, 0), (1, 1, 1), (2, 2, 2)]. Am I missing something?
The title would be better like this: Flask - An introduction to one of Pythons lightweight web frameworks. Flask isn't the only one. It's awesome, and so are some of the other ones.
It turns the list (a single object) into an argument list (like *args). Imagine you had this function: def test(first, second = None): print "First:", first print "Second:", second Then execute the code with the list `[1, 2]` with and without the `*`: &gt; test([1, 2]) First: [1, 2] Second: None &gt; test(*[1, 2]) First: 1 Second: 2 Another example using `*args`: def using_args(*args): print args &gt; using_args([1, 2]) [[1, 2]] &gt; using_args(*[1, 2]) [1, 2] This "trick" with zip takes a list of tuples and unpacks it so that each tuple is a separate argument to zip which packs the `i`th element in each tuple together into a new tuple.
Are there any new features in this, or just bug fixes? 
You are getting downvoted but generally this is the case. List comprehensions are a single line of multiple logic, which makes it more difficult to follow the program flow since you are missing that structure.
why the PYCON chair should resign and submit to 'trial'? 1.)IT IS A VOLUNTEER ORGANiZATION. Python has a MALEVOLENT...err BENEVOLENT err 'volent' dictator of the language. PYCON HAS A CHAIR, dictator.. wrong...srong leader?... err confused volunteer. 2.)despite many problems - some democracies work because OF THE PROCESS. - it's called checks and balances. 3.)one anonymous tip. the roving DRONE flying around the conference hall picks up the sound of DONGLE, DONGLE, DONGLE and some HUMAN winking. This is cause for removal, posting of pictures of shame and asking the employer to fire them. 4.)there must be a lot of warnings. education classes and even 'voluntary submital of ALL TALKS to a commitee of women and men about racism, sexism.' 5.)Investment Bank. Financial Services. in the dictionary CHINESE WALL really means JEWISH WALL or 'NEGRO WALL?' or what exactlly does it have to do the CHINESE RACE, not the Chinese nation? There are at least 2: PRC - Communist China and Taiwan. 6.)How do I know? I am older. Been there, done that with plenty of organizations including FEMALE MAJORITY organizations. Yes, certainly although I was there to learn (conference is anonymous) and I had my GIRLFRIEND THERE. And I was friendly and well dressed, I FELT A LOT OF VIBES OF SUSPICION and 'feminism'??? Summary: FIRE THE PYCON CHAIR! ... errr. here are the steps 1.)in areas of common seating - request folks move their seats. It is exactly like a woman wearing PERFUME sitting right next to me a SINGLE MAN. But, I am allergic to her perfume/odor/etc. ... oh, yes, I have worked in heavy industry - including chemical plants. 2.)like the US way, there are a series of warnings and a long and sometimes complex trial system ALL THE WAY TO THE SUPREME COURT. 3.)never should be any taking of public photos or 'attempted libel.' SO SHAME ON THE WOMAN. 4.)the PYCON CHAIR IS not a dictator, although he/she may think so. One person cannot just 'stamp out racism.' Obviously, where are the AFRICAN-AMERICANS at the conference? ANTARTIC - or north and south pole native peoples representation? 5.)parties, private parties even sponsored ALL YOU CAN DRINK by major corporations have HIGH RISK FACTOR. But the conference must say - YOU ARE ON YOUR OWN and we wash our hands of you when you go to the 'parties.' 6.)MR. PYCON CHAIR or director of conference. Some business details get discussed in washrooms. SHALL WE ASK FOR MICROPHONES and listening devices in both the man's and woman's washrooms?? 7.)checks and balances. he said, she said. if needed, then STOP THE CONFERENCE. convene an ASSEMBLY. ask for volunteers or just randomly pick them. THEY ARE THE JURY. You cannot be the judge, jury and EXECUTIONER. 8.)it is very strange. WOMAN'S TITLE IS EVANGELIST. From the Bible - saint paul, disciple traveled around and problably had plenty of 'racism,sexism' etc. By the way, paul was named SAUL and he allegedly was a ZEALOT and killer of 'christians.' ... or maybe the bible is full of fantasy?? The WOMAN IS TO EVANGELIZE AND CONVERT. to take the insults and skeptical glances and say ... this version is 'the way' ...whatever that means. 9.)ATHEISTS ARE WELCOME TO JOIN IN and start flaming or throwing innuendo in the conversation... the more, the merrier in the fight of ideas. 10.)hallway conversation... oh, the WOMANS WASHROOM. Woman just breaks up with finance.... amazing how evil and how many sexist things she says IN THE WOMAN"S WASHROOM about MEN... bad men... bad men... bad men.... 15.)summary - avoid escalation. try to get the private parties to meet and work things out. use committes MUCH MORE. use juries if you must. NEVER BE THE judge, jury AND the executioner - it is too much responsibility and too much authority at the same time. avoid publicity. What is next? Taking photographs in the MAN'S WASHROOM? independent commission report is NOW required! BEFORE THE NEXT CONFERENCE. set up a handbook with checklists. I have seen similar... maybe it is better and MAYBE IT IS WORSE at technical conferences, ENGINEERING CONFERENCE - YES I AM A VOLUNTEER LEADER - and I was the only ASIAN-AMERICAN leader at that rank. Red Cross? Boy Scouts? Rotary Club? How do they handle it? IF absolutely necessary, then a volunteer (and I may volunteer) is called the CENSOR and he/she/ is the official enforcement. No other duties. expected to keep moving around with a BRIGHT YELLOW HAT AND FLAG. Oh, and guys, man.... this is a joke... do NOT sit next to any strange WOMEN at the conferences and shun them at the parties... 15.)FINALLY. the problem is not unique to PYCON or python. this writer, blogger, tweeter. GOOGLE GLASSES ON ALL THE TIME has got to stop. 16.)HEY SMART PEOPLE - Never go to Defcon, Las Vegas. the entrance is 50 dollars cash. NEVER GO TO PYCON. why ruin your reputation over a strange CODE OF CONDUCT. 17.)code of conduct is only for the BIG EMPLOYERS. Makes it easy to fire or terminate you. Certified Microsoft Visual Basic Programmer? any problems YOUR PAPERWORK IS LOST. Code of conduct says nothing about the TRUE EFFECTIVENESS which is the INFORMAL GATHERING and informal exchange of ideas. 18.)warning adults only. There is a FEMALE SEX TOY that plugs into the USB for charging and has top FEMALE officers of the corporation. It looks a lot like a .... fill in the blank..... When a legitimate content delivery company requests sponsorship and is associated with KIM DOTCOM - controversial and PORNOGRAPHY MOVIES, then surely PYCON WILL throw a hissyfit. IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO LEGISLATE GOOD TASTE IN THE USA. there are plenty of conference participants who are STILL CRITICIZING YOUR COFEE/TEA. Taste will differ. 
Oh crap, yeah, you're right. Distracted thinking is dangerous. Next best thing, although it depends on an import from itertools. from itertools import product product(range(3), range(3), range(3)) 
Why are people dissing the venerable Python list comprehension? I've been writing FOR loops since 1975 and when I finally "got" Python's list comprehensions a few years ago it was like a breath of fresh air. Go out of your way to use them. The more experience you have with them, the better you will be at figuring out when to use them. 
if you click on the link, your questions will be answered.
That's the full 2.7 changelog I think.
No, that's right, but there is another function that does this. &gt;&gt;&gt; from itertools import product &gt;&gt;&gt; list(product(range(3), range(3), range(3))) [(0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 1), (0, 0, 2), (0, 1, 0), (0, 1, 1), (0, 1, 2), (0, 2, 0), (0, 2, 1), (0, 2, 2), (1, 0, 0), (1, 0, 1), (1, 0, 2), (1, 1, 0), (1, 1, 1), (1, 1, 2), (1, 2, 0), (1, 2, 1), (1, 2, 2), (2, 0, 0), (2, 0, 1), (2, 0, 2), (2, 1, 0), (2, 1, 1), (2, 1, 2), (2, 2, 0), (2, 2, 1), (2, 2, 2)] Lots of goodies in `itertools`. Edit: Guess I had the page open for too long, eagleeye1's answer wasn't there when I typed this.
If you click on the link labeled "Change log for this release" you get the NEWS file in the repository which is a fine-grained list of changes in each point release. It's a long list of minor bug fixes and tweaks, but nothing significant is jumping out. 
Yeah I saw that and concluded the same.
SURRENDER YOUR PENISES, THEN WE CAN TALK
Yeah, I forgot the context of the conversation, my bad.
WHOAH!!!! that is the best greatest fantastic news ever. uuid is a critical part to http, whereas ctypes is not. 
I have used CherryPy + Mako Templates for creating intranet applications and really liked coding with it but ran in to a block when I tried to implement html5 uploads with progress. I was not able to get CherryPy to handle the XMLHttpRequest properly. I wish I had the time to update cherrypy but instead wound up using Web2Py an MVC framework that is on the opposite end of the spectrum from CherryPy. CherryPy is a bare bones frame work but Web2Py will create CRUD application with little more than a model. 
Well, went through all your slides and not seeing this broad array of functionality that django ORM supports that we don't: * hstore - [yup](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html?highlight=hstore#sqlalchemy.dialects.postgresql.HSTORE) * ARRAY - [yup](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html?highlight=hstore#sqlalchemy.dialects.postgresql.ARRAY) * ad-hoc arrays and full expression support, range UPDATES, etc. - [yup](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html?highlight=hstore#sqlalchemy.dialects.postgresql.array) * JSON - [soon](http://www.sqlalchemy.org/trac/ticket/2581) * full text search - [yup](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/core/schema.html?highlight=match#sqlalchemy.schema.Column.match) * geo types - [yup](http://www.geoalchemy.org/) * queue feature - your slides illustrate this with Celery, [which supports SQLAlchemy as much as Django](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/getting-started/brokers/sqlalchemy.html), not sure if they are using LISTEN/NOTIFY internally but they can certainly get at the psycopg2 APIs just as well * build all kinds of indexes - [yup](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#postgresql-specific-index-options) * connection pooling - duh, [your lib uses ours!](https://github.com/kennethreitz/django-postgrespool/blob/master/django_postgrespool/base.py#L7) ;) But wait, there's more ! (as you well know! ) * [common table expressions](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/orm/query.html?highlight=cte#sqlalchemy.orm.query.Query.cte) - and here's where we'll even add them to [updates, inserts, and deletes](http://www.sqlalchemy.org/trac/ticket/2551) soon * [window functions](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/core/expression_api.html?highlight=over#sqlalchemy.sql.expression.over) and here's the whole [talk] (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E09qigk_hnY) I did at pycon last year * [full schema support](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#remote-cross-schema-table-introspection) including cross-schema reflection of foreign keys * [UPDATE..FROM](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/core/tutorial.html#multiple-table-updates) * [RETURNING](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#insert-update-returning) any way you want * [two phase commit](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/core/connections.html?highlight=two%20phase#sqlalchemy.engine.Connection.begin_twophase) which you can use transparently with the ORM too * [server side cursors](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#psycopg2-connect-arguments) * [per-connection transaction isolation settings](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#per-statement-connection-execution-options) * [mapping to INHERITS partitions](http://www.sqlalchemy.org/trac/wiki/UsageRecipes/PostgreSQLInheritance) * [FROM ONLY](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#from-only) * [transparent pgcrypto example](http://www.sqlalchemy.org/trac/wiki/UsageRecipes/DatabaseCrypt) * [NOTICE logging](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#notice-logging) * [all kinds of types](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/dialects/postgresql.html#postgresql-data-types) - ENUM, INET, CIDR, UUID, MACADDR, INTERVAL, and of course you can [make any type like popcorn](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/core/types.html#types-custom) and [yes they integrate as tightly as any other type](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/rel_0_8/core/types.html#redefining-and-creating-new-operators) Not to mention all the normal SQL we do.... There's hardly a feature anyone has needed that we can't add or show them a recipe for within a couple of days. 
Sorry, I check reddit rarely. To answer your question: the log(n) growth assumption is based on balanced trees. If you have N pieces of data, and you process the data recursively, dividing it in half (for example) and recursing on each half, then you end up that the maximum call depth is proportional to log(N), because you can only divide the data in half log(N) times before you can't divide anymore. Most recursive processes would seem, superficially at least, to have a similar rule. The problem is that actually, most of the time, you don't always necessarily divide the data in any fixed proportion. So this kind of argument doesn't apply, and it's easy to come up with examples of many data structures where the naive recursive approach will fail magnificently on data small enough to fit in memory, because Python's recursion limit is really low. For example, if you're processing an abstract syntax tree for a hypothetical language, maybe you'd implement it the following way: class ASTVisitor: def visit_and(self, expr1, expr2): return self.visit(expr) and self.visit(expr2) def visit_not(self, expr1): return not self.visit(expr1) # ... This will break completely on a chain of 500 "not"s followed by a "True". So this is an example of a situation where recursion is the cleanest way to implement something, but also, recursion will break on valid input unnecessarily.
I'm a mathematician who works with other mathematicians writing code: list comprehensions are perfect, and unlike other posters here they are often *clearer* amongst my peers that the more complicated for loops and associated logic since we all think in set builder format anyway.
I have a feeling whatever solution is decided upon won't be quite as nice to use as gevent or Tornado.
If you read the link there's a lot of new features. Ordered dictionary type is one example.
Good to know!
Those are new features in 2.7 (released in 2010), not 2.7.4.
is a quick list comprehension better in terms of performance than the traditional way?
*shrug* I understand Guido's reasoning behind explicit yielding, and even agree with it, the built-in event loop will make it easier to write tools that do implicit yielding and realistically both models should be supported. But the biggest thing this will add is interoperability. If you want to write your app in gevent (with implicit yielding) but call libraries written for Tornado or Twisted an use the same event-loop for everything and it will work (maybe not seamlessly, but it will work).
As an active Python developer, please upgrade to 3.3+ already. 
Yes, and in performance crucial operations you should optimize code where necessary.
No.
`a if c1 else b if c2 else c` _is_, technically, same as `elif` (which, itself, is same as `else: if: ...`)
Honestly, I somewhat like the C / C# order of writing those things: `condition ? true_part : false_part` (`if condition then true_part else false_part`) and `from num in numbers where num % 2 == 0 select num`. With the total result like `[for baz in bazes for bar in baz if filter_condition(baz, bar): if bar &lt; 5 then bar**2 elif bar &lt; 10 then (bar - 1)**2 else bar + 2]`. Not necessarily mutually exclusive with the current python's syntax of writing those.
how did that prevent requests in embedded cpython? im confused
Said those that don't know how to effectively use virtualenv.
Is map still ok to use or should I just use list comprehensions in situations like this. map(func, list) # or [func(x) for x in list] 
The answer to [this question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3337149/crontab-wont-run-python-script) on stack overflow should answer it. It looks like your script is being run as a bash script, not a python script.
You might want to look at [Pushover](https://pushover.net/). Free sign up, simple API. Edit: Looks like the app is $3.99, but there's no subscription if you send less than 7,500 messages per month.
Thanks, this looks promising. 
You're right, it's fixed now. Thanks
SHUT UP BIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITCH!
Or those who use libraries only available on 2.x, and/or those who maintain huge repositories of code written for 2.x.
At least not twice. One trinary is fine!
Never heard of it before this. Looks interesting. I was kinda hoping you could just dig in to the coursework. Seems they want you to wait till classes start. Python is intriguing for topics like computer graphics for sure. I'd love to see what they're doing in that class. As for edX, I used to be a licensed Macromedia Authorware developer. It was three grand a seat just to produce a licensed executable! That was before anybody even started working. It was like before the money could even begin to flow you were already dumping three grand. Then the bleeding began in earnest. And this is a product that was targeted exclusively to the education market. Those guys had a problem in their business model for sure. Didn't become apparent for a long time, but they're gone now. That prohibitive cost structure went a long way to explaining why schools were so reluctant to use it. The results were great, but nobody could afford it. So edX sounds great but that page seemed more focused on specific courses than on the SDK. Any links to say Debian repositories that it can be installed from? I'd love to see an open source version of something like Authorware but the problem is that it's sort of antithetical to the mindset of many open source enthusiast developers. The gist of it was that it was a . . . I forget the term-- something like flow control programming model. The way the program flowed was laid out in something like a flow chart and the pages were objects that you could insert media in to along with questions and automatic scoring. It was cool because it helped keep you organized and you could do things like put in a rotating pool of questions so that two test takers sitting right next to each other would have different materials or put in weighted question so that people who had higher scores would only see the more advanced questions which meant the quizzes could be shorter. There were a lot of interesting aspects to it but the drawback was you still had to code most things outside of the flow control. So it did raise the question of why not just do that in code as well since you were doing all kinds of code for other things including the stupid Windoze installers. And then there was the price. Well that and the collapse of Macromedia. I guess that was the real clincher. I remember seeing a school I worked at that had hired me in part because of my Macromedia background throw out a small mountain of Macromedia boxes, CDs, manuals. Hardly anybody touched the stuff but every department bought a copy for whatever reason. I guess it was a steal at $500 for a box with a CD once they offered their special education discount or whatever. 
&gt;This "trick" with zip takes a **sequence** of **sequences** and unpacks it so that each **sequence** is a separate argument to zip which packs the ith element in each **sequence** together into a new tuple. Sorry to be pedantic.
&gt;**Python &gt;=2.7** also supports dictionary, set, and generator comprehensions! Many linuxes still ship with 2.6, which doesn't have dict and set comprehensions.
And `itertools` while you're at it.
Never!
Depends on what you're trying to achieve, and which version you're in. If you're running python 2.x, then the two are identical, except `map` might be slightly faster as it's easier to optimise the code for. In Python 3, `map` is lazy (like `xrange` in 2.x) - it only generates sequence members as you need them, so if `func` stores state, that could get modified between calls: i = 0 def func(x): global i #yes, it's dirty, but I'm demonstrating a point. i += 1 return x + i for n in map(func, range(10): #do stuff foo = func(bar) #more stuff print n In python 2, it'll print 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 In 3.x it'll print 1 4 7 10 13 16 19 22 25 28 The other advantage of list comps is that you don't need to use a lambda with them if there isn't a function defined to do what you need: &gt;&gt;&gt; print map(lambda x: x+1, range(10)) [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10] &gt;&gt;&gt; print [x+1 for x in range(10)] [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
I wanted to install version 3.3 in an isolated virtualenv for trying it out; but it seems you can only create a 3.3 virtualenv if you already have python 3.3 installed somewhere. This creates a catch 22 problem. Is there any simple guide for getting an isolated python 3.3 installation on a linux machine with 2.7 installed and where one does not have sudo powers ? That would be of interest to me.
The problem for most would-be Python 3 users is roughly analogous to the situation which occurred between Plan 9 and the Unix platform: despite notable improvements, the potential userbase of Plan 9 did not perceive enough of a benefit to switch to it. Extant users of Plan 9 failed to catalyze a persuasive enough argument to attract people already using unices to solve their problems. The true failure on the part of the Python core developers is a failure in marketing. They have continuously missed out on an opportunity to highlight new and useful features (which are now, in fact, available). If you were to take a cross-section of Python users at large and ask them what has improved, they would suggest: "well, I suppose Guido attempted to address a few grammatical inconsistencies. That's about it, right?" Although such a synopsis would have been mostly valid about earlier versions of Python 3, the perception lingers on about current versions. It is now incumbent upon the PSF to conduct an effective marketing campaign (I use this term for a lack of a better alternative) to pull back library authors to their side. I mean to express no ill will towards the BDFL in this message, because I understand what he is trying to do, but I disagree with his approach. Guido's brilliance as a linguistic researcher has brought us the current iteration of Python which has reached critical mass: the 2.7.x release. 2.7 is widely perceived to work well for common applications, **because a wide array of usable libraries are available**. However, I believe that Guido's publicized focus on language features at the beginning of Python 3 development has largely hampered the campaign to switch to Python 3. My thesis is is simple: by alienating library authors, and not providing them with strong enough feature incentive to port their libraries to Python 3, many 2.7 users are left timid in turn. Further, as a result of the same phenomenon, Python 3 has failed to attract *new* users as well, because users are drawn to what *already* works well, rather than that which has promise to someday work well. I will not name specific names of library authors which have been alienated by the marketing misadventure described herein, but they truly are the missing link in the adoption chain here. Were they to now evaluate Python 3 on its merits, they would be far more likely to adopt it than if they were to do so a couple years ago. If one could derive a single message out of this rant which can be communicated to the core developers, let it be this: Python as a language and a vm is an *exciting* technology with many useful features. Get library authors (other than the subset of them which are lexical and grammatical nerds) excited in new features, and adoption by a wider userbase will follow.
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pythonbrew/
I'm not 100% convinced that an API for generating SQL queries, even one as convenient as SQLAlchemy Core, really counts as NoSQL.
Because that's not the definition of free speech. 
That was it! Thanks for the help!
I find your attitude quite offensive. Stop it now or I will inform your employer.
Excellent, that is exactly what I needed. It's unfortunate I didn't find that package when performing my initial search. I have to give props to the developer, it is really well made and easy to use. Thank you very much !
I spoke with a couple of their reps at PyCon - it looks very interesting, to say the least.
First two items in the bullet list look new: * An ordered dictionary type * New unittest features including test skipping, new assert methods, and test discovery
It looks like you tried to make a joke, but the comment's quite offensive to Ned, and I don't find it funny.
Max, My opinion on this is the author of the tutorial should remain responsible for tutorials they write. In cases where the author is no longer able to, then I believe the community at large and sites like stackoverflow can certainly help. In cases where people have tried everything, then I think people on IRC channel should certainly help out. The upside of lot of these tutorials being made available is these new frameworks get a lot of exposure. There is pro and con to every situation and I don't think not writing a tutorial is the solution to that. Tutorials like these can also help improve the official documentation. And I agree with Daniel below(DasIch), a lot of these problems can be easily avoided by improving the official documentation (a chicken and egg promblem IMHO)
You probably want to delete lines 2 and 3 also (line 3 no longer works).
Sure. I probably should have said *this list of tuples* since I was referring to the input list, but any ***iterable*** will work with zip. Sorry to be further pedantic, but sequence != iterable. [Sequences](http://docs.python.org/3/c-api/sequence.html) are tailored more toward random access with `__getitem__` (slice, index, `for x in seq`) while [iterables](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0234/) are (more or less) anything that defines `__iter__` and `__next__`. I don't know of an example of a built-in sequence that's not *also* an iterable, but to test whether or not something takes a sequence or not, use a generator: &gt; zip((x for x in range(4)), (x for x in range(4))) [(0, 0), (1, 1), (2, 2), (3, 3)] &gt; reversed(x for x in range(4)) TypeError: argument to reversed() must be a sequence
To offer a counterpoint: a lot of the important libraries have now been ported to Python 3, and the pace [has never been faster](http://dev.pocoo.org/~gbrandl/py3pkgs.png). Now that 3.3 is out, I've seen a lot of interest in using it. I'm glad that core devs didn't try to push everyone to Python 3 quickly, because I think they would have lost a lot of credibility by pushing it fast. The PSF has provided strategic funding to get certain libraries ported quicker (they supported the Pillow port, for example).
Any reason to prefer ipython over bpython if you don't use numpy &amp; co.? 
Thank you for offering that perspective. Seeing the the number of Python 3 packages available over time is encouraging. I think it is indeed incredible that many library authors have done their part and ported to Python 3. The state of transition hasn't been without its difficulties, however. I do still think that the PSF could do a better job at emphasizing the benefits of upgrading, beyond vague promises of the syntax being more internally consistent, however. For example, having [PEP 3147](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3147/) (pyc directories) implemented makes a much more clean development environment, instead of having .pyc files littered everywhere. This means less headache for the end developer. Another example is the inclusion of venv (formerly virtualenv) as a built-in module, which makes isolation of dependencies between projects much more manageable. Porting a library requires a lot of less-than-fun busywork. I think that the more these types of features are prominently featured (and implemented, for that matter), the more library writers will be encouraged to invest the effort required to port their existing libraries from 2.7.x or earlier to Python 3. User adoption will follow that trend, in proportion.
I do mostly frontend these days, when I need a bit of backend meat I usually go with flask (advantage of low overhead). Don't take that as an indication of anything though.
&gt; So no clue.. I don't see anything particularly slow in the get method.. The calling of the `get` itself method is probably what's slow in CPython, even if there's more bytecode a cpython funcall can be expensive compared to straight bytecode operations.
I started using ipython recently and used bpython only a few times, so far the only thing bpython has over ipython is his syntax coloration, but maybe you can get an extension or something for ipython. What I use a lot is ipython [magic functions](http://ipython.org/ipython-doc/dev/interactive/tutorial.html). Specially %timeit, %run (run a .py file directly in the interpreter) and classic linux commands (cd ls). It speeds up my work significantly.
[If you don’t know why IPython is awesome, the award winner will explain it to you if you will click here.](http://pyvideo.org/video/640/ipython-python-at-your-fingertips) **[Or here, if you don’t have Flash.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&amp;v=26wgEsg9Mcc)**
&gt; so far the only thing bpython has over ipython is his syntax coloration IIRC, BPython uses python-curses for the CLI. So things like multiline editing which is not possible with the IPython CLI (but possible with the Qt interface) is possible on BPython CLI.
And the slippery slope of focusing on drama and bullshit that killed Ruby on Fails begins....
&gt; Adobe Flash Player is required to display some elements on this page Sigh.
I'm coming next year and it's gonna be nothing but dick jokes. Can't wait!
I won't, but I've been meaning to play with Flask myself. thanks!
I dunno, but I think I'd consider this mildly bad style unless it's really something you're using heavily throughout a module. I'd bet that 80%+ of Python developers don't know what functools.partial does, so it's much easier to understand the KISS approach of just using a function: def etc_filename(name): return join(BASE_PATH, name) I'm not a big fan of lambda, but I'd say even lambda is better, as it's short but still only uses built-in Python constructs: etc_filename = lambda name: join(BASE_PATH, name) Update: Per the article, I see what I've got is not quite equivalent. You need this (two more characters): def etc_filename(*args): return join(BASE_PATH, *args) 
&gt; As long as the reader of your code understands what partial functions ... [partial](http://docs.python.org/2.7/library/functools.html#functools.partial) is a brilliant tool, one of my favourite bit in the Python stdlib. But assuming it's well-known is a stretch I'm afraid. Nipick, I love IPython as much as the next guy but in this article, it's more noise than required.
That said, you won't get multiple streams out of it. That HD feed is going to just about saturate the system. If someone's streaming video then you won't be able to do much else with the system and trying to will likely disrupt the original feed. Not too bad as a single user thing, but you'll get annoyed with it if you try to share it. I think it's a thing to do with the pi you already have, rather than a reason to get a pi.
You only need Dragon NaturallySpeaking home, and I think you can get that for around $50.
It's not crazy it's just an equivocation of language. In Ethnic Studies 101 they teach you that racism = prejudice + power. Since black people have virtually no power in the US the natural consequence is that black people can't be racist. If you're used to using 'racist' to just mean not liking some other race or thinking them inferior then it sounds patently absurd of course.
I love partial and really enjoy Mike Muller's talks and tutorials but this seems a bit of a stretch. What does partial in this context buy anything beyond using lambda or even an 'old school' function?
For the inherent types, all the comparisons are written in the C code and it was incorrectly written. A friend of mine digs into it more [here](http://codrspace.com/durden/comparing-unrelated-python-types/)
Works well with vim too for linux systems. edit myprogram.py 
How about [ipdb](http://gremu.net/blog/2010/using-ipythons-debugger-pdb-replacement/)? 
I believe bython has moved to using urwid.
I use an Andrea microphone.
The shortcut for full-screen in LibreOffice is control + shift + J. Once you make a voice command, Full Screen = {Ctrl_Shift_J}, it's much more intuitive, and easier to remember to say full-screen, instead of control + shift + J. I started using Autohotkey for remapping buttons to macros. I soon didn't have enough buttons, so I'd have to make new scripts that use the same button e.g. F1 launches a google search on the clipboard, but in another script, it could be to delete all words to the end of a sentence. The buttons aren't labeled, so I would sometimes forget which button does what. 
Requests uses urllib3 which uses uuid. The uuid module depended on ctypes which loaded a DLL that would segfault an embedded cpython interpreter. [See this mailing list for more info.](http://mail.python.org/pipermail/capi-sig/2009-July/000266.html)
You can play things faster with mplayer, too, which is a generally-better backend. 
That's 2.6-&gt;2.7. 
I'm sorry, but I feel like that kind of behaviour leads to reducing the level of the community. If feature that are a bit above the average level of understanding are considered bad style, then we stagnate in a language with only basic constructions, missing on powerful constructs and concepts that help write better code.
take a look at CherryPy too
Ive tried Flask, and all I can say is, it is too lightweight to do anything worthwhile with it, you just end up building and choosing extensions and structures for your application that is time better spent solving your domain problem if you had chosen django. The details, sqlalchemy over djangos orm are not valid reasons to chose either project or spend time learning and integrating sqlalchemy with flask and then alembic in 99.999% of the cases of software projects. Just go with the tried, django. If you truly need lightweight, use gevent or gunicorn or bottle.
Do you know if it matters which version of Dragon you get for doing what he does in the video?
&gt; In Ethnic Studies 101 they teach you that racism = prejudice + power. So they teach you something blatantly wrong? The very definition of racism is prejudice based on race. Not a damn thing to do with power.
[just pointing out that this deals with only a small subset of DER](http://luca.ntop.org/Teaching/Appunti/asn1.html). It's not a particularly complex coding, but it takes a bit more than this. btw, do people consider this code clean/idiomatic Python? I find myself a little uncomfortable with some of the constructions in there (at least without comments), but then I do spend more time with other languages these days.
It's mine. I'm still getting the hang of recursive descent parsing. If you liked that, check out its RSA-verifying companion https://bitbucket.org/dholth/rsalette/src/tip/rsalette.py . I need to be able to check signatures without dependencies with something that is easy to embed.
Well, if this doesn't return a smile on your face, I don't know what would..
It’s from YouTube. http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&amp;v=26wgEsg9Mcc
FYI you can do something similar with the ~$22 [TL-WR703N router + OpenWrt](http://shackspace.de/?p=3772). ($22 total, since it also includes a power supply, enclosure and WiFi)
Isn't the same that walking the lists from the ends and walking backward until they diverge?
Here are a few last examples: &lt;modifierKey&gt; := Shift | Control=Ctrl | Alt | Alternate=Alt | Win | Windows=Win; &lt;key&gt; := &lt;actionKey&gt; | &lt;characterKey&gt;; Insert &lt;modifierKey&gt; &lt;key&gt; = Main.InsertText({$1+$2}); e.g. say “Insert Control Right”. Output: {Control+Right} This inserts the literal “{Control+Right}” keystroke specifier, which can be used in a voice command when you're editing a Vocola file. ({Control+Right} would be on the “action”/right side) (command = terms '=' actions ';') &lt;newInsert&gt; := New|Insert; &lt;newInsert&gt; Block = newBlock(); e.g. say “New Block”. selectLines(n) := {End}{Home}{Home}{Shift+Down_$n}; commentLines() := {Ctrl+e}c{Right_2}; Comment &lt;n&gt; [Lines] = selectLines($1) commentLines(); e.g. say “Comment 4 Lines”. or say “Comment 4”, as “Lines” is optional. You can always come up with something more fun or easy to say once you're comfortable. Comment | Bubbles | Banana &lt;n&gt; [Lines] = selectLines($1) commentLines(); say “Banana 4”.
I'm using premium, and you should do a little research to confirm, but I'm pretty sure you can just use Dragon NaturallySpeaking home.
Is there a PyGentlemen as well?
IMO, programming (and IT in general) should be genderless and people should be judged based on merit alone. Groups like this promote the idea that one group of people deserves more than another based solely on an arbitrary fact.
You cannot walk backward in a simply linkedlist. Given a node, you only have access to the next nodes pointer.
I was one of the auctioneers here - it was amazing, really. It was humbling to see folks want to support all the efforts of PyLadies. What was most amazing was it was a **surprise** for us PyLadies from the PyCon organizers and the PSF. The support behind us can be seen in the [statistics](https://twitter.com/selenamarie/statuses/314513382508199936) at PyCon, at the [ever growing list](http://www.pyladies.com/locations/) of locations of PyLadies, and continue the [awesome](http://www.meetup.com/PyLadies-ATX/events/99059532/) [events](http://www.meetup.com/Seattle-PyLadies/events/105443102/) [that](http://www.meetup.com/dc-pyladies/events/83123242/) [we](http://www.meetup.com/Pyladies-Toronto/events/99002792/) [host](http://www.meetup.com/PyLadies-PDX/events/105934292/), both for women-only and [everybody](http://www.meetup.com/PyLadiesSF/events/99955512/).
&gt; Groups like this promote the idea that one group of people deserves more than another based solely on an arbitrary fact. The IT industry as it stands promotes the idea that one group of people deserves more than another based solely on an arbitrary fact. Groups like this promote the idea that this is a bad idea. Yours, White Male
&gt; The IT industry as it stands promotes the idea that one group of people deserves more than another based solely on an arbitrary fact How?
Yeah, you don't understand discrimination nor how pervasive it is. If you aren't a woman or a minority you tend to be blind to it. I'm not saying it's deliberate discrimination. For most of the majority all they need is to be made aware of it. The assumption is that the IT workplace should represent the demographic makeup of the community or country at large. Why is that? A democratic society should give everyone one the opportunity to work where they want. If a woman or a minority wants to work in IT and they don't see other women or minorities they tend to think (and rightly so) there is discrimination. Women get paid less than men for the same job. Until we reach a genderless colorblind workplace we must reach out to those groups. And here's the thing. PyLadies and organizations like it are voluntary. It's not mandated affirmative action. The problem with mandates is that it can create resistance to doing the right thing. I support PyLadies and the good things they are doing. Diversity in the workplace is like diversity in nature. The more there is the healthier the ecosystem or workplace is.
I am currently sitting in an office of approximately 60 people in our IT/technology department. Two of them are women (and one of those is a designer, which is only tangentially IT-related; she could just as well be designing for print). At most 5 of them are not white. People like other people who look, sound and think like them. And so we discriminate. That's how.
&gt; The assumption is that the IT workplace should represent the demographic makeup of the community or country at large. This is a fatal assumption I see a lot of people make when it comes to this matter. An IT workplace should not be representative of anything. It should be composed of the best, the brightest, and the hardest working. Age, gender, race, etc do not factor into the appropriate attributes hiring someone should be based on. &gt; The assumption is that the IT workplace should represent the demographic makeup of the community or country at large I'm an openly gay man working for a large conservative-led corporation. There weren't many gays when I started working here and their still aren't. The lack of other gays didn't stop my decision to apply or accept this job and I'm doing more than fine here. Now replace "gays" with "women" and "conservative-led" with "no women in upper management at all".
It's a sad day in neutrality when you make such a valid observation, and you get flamed to hell for it.
You're suggesting that a lack of diversity in a workplace is caused by discrimination. I would like to ask how many women applied to the jobs that men were accepted for and how many of those women were more qualified than their male counter-parts. If those people were hired over someone more qualified due to the color of their skin or gender then I would call that discrimination otherwise I would call that hiring the most qualified people.
Article doesn't deliver what headline promises. The means by which the kids stole the show was never disclosed.
I mostly agree with this. I don't think that discrimination is non-existent. I thinks that it should be addressed when it comes up but I don't think that a lack of women = discrimination. 
It was loosely based on "The Italian Job". In the end, they had a big truck full of show, and it was teetering on the edge of a cliff - I won't say what happened next (spoilers!)
I did read the article. I was obviously joking. 
I'm looking at the link you provided. I only gave it a quick skim, but most of what's there is now part of the standard libraries. Is there something specific you're looking for? q.v list comprehensions, itertools, pprint http://docs.python.org/release/2.7/library/itertools.html http://docs.python.org/release/2.7/library/pprint.html http://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/datastructures.html 
&gt; most of what's there is now part of the standard libraries. A lot of it is there to give compatibility when using old python versions with code using newer features. Some was accepted into the standard library though. I have a bunch of my own util functions to merge dictionaries, flatten lists, handle NaN, and so forth. I imagine a lot of people maintain their own personal collection. It would be nice to share some of these shortcut functions. 
&gt; *I have a bunch of my own util functions to...* Why? Merge dicts are one liners. Flatten lists are one liners. NaN is handled through exceptions. &gt; *I imagine a lot of people maintain their own personal collection* I do/did for other languages (C++, Java, etc.), but I do not for Python. Batteries fully included. Anything I still need a "util" function for is generally just a one-liner or is project specific and is promoted to a "real" function. 
There's a good [recent article by Christina Hoff Summers which addresses these points](http://www.theatlantic.com/sexes/archive/2013/03/what-lean-in-misunderstands-about-gender-differences/274138/). &gt;What if difference between men and women turns out to be a phenomenon not of oppression, but rather of social well-being? &gt;... &gt;Consider, in this regard, the gender disparities in engineering. An article on the Wharton School website laments the paucity of women engineers and holds up China and Russia as superior examples of equity. According to the post, "In China, 40 percent of engineers are women, and in the former USSR, women accounted for 58 percent of the engineering workforce." The author blames workplace biases and stereotypes for the fact that women in the United States earn only 20 percent of the doctoral degrees in engineering. But perhaps American women earn fewer degrees in engineering because they don't have to. They have more opportunities to pursue careers that really interest them. American women may be behind men in engineering, but they now earn a majority of all Ph.Ds and outnumber men in humanities, biology, social sciences, and health sciences. Despite 40 years of consciousness-raising and gender-neutral pronouns, most men and women still gravitate to different fields and organize their lives in different ways. Personally, I'm agnostic. I'm willing to go with whatever the best research finds about the causes for gender disparities in IT. I find it plausible that women are experiencing sexism in IT, but I also find it plausible that given the option- more men than women would choose to be programmers. 
Yea, but making jokes about being a woman and Windows programmer are two different things. It's actually masochistic to work with Python on Windows.
feel the wrath of redditors with good judgement and mice. :)
You're free to disagree of course, but this objection is begging the question because the 'very definition' is exactly what is at issue.
I need to send this to my nephews. 
Just tried this over mySql for embeded DB. What do python guru's think about it?
I'm not sure what you think that shows. The dictionary is primarily a catalog of common usage, not an exhaustive prescriptive authority(*pace*, France) of every context a word can take.
If I'm not mistaken, a dictionary shows definitions of words. Perhaps not exhaustive, as you have said, but given the context of this thread I think it can be understood that we're not in Ethnic Studies 101, and anyone who uses your definition of racism outside of such a class can expect to be misunderstood.
Could you sum this comment up? It doesn't seem very coherent, and I'm dumb apparently.
Although there's probably a better implementation of something similar out there, I wanted to see if I could dynamically create and store my output perlin noise equation, and call it later. A bit of googling netted this. Enjoy :) Edit: As I wasn't signed into my github, I'm unable to edit it, but the imports should be imp and inspect.
what do you do when your the database schema does not conform to what those django apps expect? Like in the real world. 
Your argument is fundamentally flawed because companies are not always looking for more people. I know from first-hand experience that a core group of 20 people who are the best in their field and get paid $175,000 is a lot better than 100 people who are all just okay at their job and get paid $50,000. There may be some benefits to having more people, such as having a wider perspective but that is not what companies are looking for, they're looking for maximum efficiency for the lowest cost. My point, I think, is that the employers are not at fault. I think that people need to be introduced to the field when they are young and if it sparks their interest and the make it to the top, they'll get the job.
Are you looking for code feedback? If so, from a quick glance at presentation.py: 1. Try not to use "import *". You should also clean-up your imports. 2. No need to use str() on ' '.join(). 3. It's never a good idea to catch all exceptions like you do in csrf_protected(). you should at least raise in such a case. 4. Instead of a long "if x == y: do z, if x == a: do b...", - use a dictionary. 5. A lot of other issues. I highly recommend reading PEP8. Good luck! 
You can do a lot with cryptic one-liners using constructs like **zip(*args)**. But a lesson that's quickly learned in functional languages is that this kind of thing gets unreadable and unmaintainable, so it's better to define named functions. Looking through my utils module, some examples are: deltas between successive elements make a ragged list of lists into a padded numpy array invert a dict return the indices of unique elements in an itterable round to a fraction load a type by name exponential decay as an infinite sequence 
I'm thinking about using d3.js for an upcoming project, python will scrape all the data. Any advice for a new-timer?
Thanks a lot - this is just what' I'm looking for.
why ???? why not PyInnerCityKids ?
quick look at creation.py `date_convert` d = date(*datetuple) instead of date(datetuple[0], datetuple[1], etc) `generate_column` - no need to set `func = lambda x:x` 5 times if it only changes for the last elif clause. set it before the if block and redefine for the last elif - instead of `filename[-5:] != '.xlsx'` use `not filename.endswith('xlsx')` - `outfile_name = 'sqlite:///%s.db' % filename[:-5]` `fname, extension = filename.split('.')` `outfile_name = 'sqlite:///{}s.db'.format(fname)` - instead of max_len = 10 if "text" in column_description: for row in range(sheet.nrows): cell_len = len(sheet.cell(row,col).value) max_len = cell_len if cell_len &gt; max_len else max_len max_len = max([len(sheet.cell(row, col).value) for row in range(sheet.nrows)]) should work Even better, create a func `cell_length = lambda row, col: len(sheet.cell(row, col).value)` max_len = max([cell_length(row, col) for row in range(sheet.nrows)]) - `for row in range(sheet.nrows)[1:]:` `for row in range(1, sheet.nrows):` etc quick look at presentation.py I closed it very quickly. I'm too lazy and not smart enough to parse that. Lots of deeply nested if elif clauses and loops. You should try to clean it up. It's very difficult to read. I think even you would have trouble remembering what's going on there in 2-3 weeks. ***** I am not sure what this does, so forgive me if this question is silly. Have you looked at pandas? Pandas can read excel files into dataframes and output them into sqlite.
&gt; “We're all so resourceful already that I suspect this money is going to go a long way towards helping women who want to get into the industry...." she has no idea what to do with the money
They used the Raspberry Pi's to counter the conference's security measures.
[pep8 is my friend](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pep8)
Hmm. There's some PyLady logic for ya: You don't agree with me? Oh, then "you don't get it." Impressive.
It was awesome to see such strong support for women in Python there. Made me wish I had brought my daughter along to see.
Rhetorical question dictated by trivial boolean math, which is a must for any programmer, regardless of sex. This starts looking more and more like a farce and one should probably expect an extension to Godwin's law claiming that anyone who mentions women in any IT context has lost by default.
Yeah, that also fixes the case where your iterable contains False. It makes more sense to raise an exception if there's no matching value so you don't get confused by None or False values.
I use Heroku - I know some of the people who work there, and I've had good support from them. They also allow one dyno for free for each project, which means most small projects run for free. I've not used the others, but I understand App Engine restricts what is available from the standard library, and you pretty much have to write your applications *for* GAE. I want to be able to switch providers on a dime, so that kills it for me. I've heard good things about DotCloud, but haven't used it.
That's a good constructive idea. How about you start PyInnerCityKids and perhaps one year the $10,000 will be raised for that organisation.
True. The atmosphere has become so tense all of a sudden. It seems when I go to the Scipy conference, I will have to make a point not to sit near women for fear of having my image posted on the internet and accused of sexual harassment. 
r/learnpython
I agree, but I would point out that it is unlikely that the current environment is currently genderless and so these groups aim to fix current problems. One interesting result of stereotypes/culture is [stereotype threat](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stereotype_threat). One interesting result was that white Princeton students scored ~3 strokes worse in golf when they were told the study was testing "athletic ability" and black Princeton students scored about ~4 strokes worse when the study said they were studying something to effect of "sports strategy." If you are interested in reading more I would check out Claude Steele's book Whistling Vivaldi. There are many more interesting examples of stereotype threat in the book.
Another charity event at PyCon also raised $5k+ for cancer research. Would you suggest PyCon attendees are too soft about cancer? If so, go fuck yourselves. People voluntarilly give money and time to the places they want it to go: python-the-language and python-as-a-community are both all volunteer operations. Sometimes that time is spent 100% on core python code commits, sometimes it is a mix of python and something else. /I'm the Atilla The Hun about when it comes to disliking diversity for it's own sake. But people spent their own time and money on this. You want to have a grief BoF at PyCon? You can get a room for that for free too, knock yourselves out.
No surpise better algorithms won. Kind of awesome to consider translating it to LISP. Cython gives you negligible speed advantage over pure python without adding types, cimports, etc... I've had the same experience with PyPy...
Even better: If you're using a modern Python version (2.7, maybe 2.6, I don't remember) you can do max_len = max(cell_length(row, col) for row in range(sheet.nrows)) #no square brackets Especially if you plan to support large spreadsheets, this will significantly improve your memory use during runtime.
Bucky is great! He has tons of great tutorials. He also explains the material very well.
Isn't Office XML horrible? We're working on a similar library for parsing docx files in order to translate to and from md, rst, LaTeX, etc. including track changes. We're in the very early stages of this, but PyCon helped facilitate a connection with someone that had a few more features parsed and is merging his code with ours. https://github.com/OpenScienceFramework/pydocx Always looking for more help, if you're interested.
&gt; You can scale linearly by just spending more money. If you believe that I've got a bridge you might be interested in buying ... Seriously though, just use Heroku.
generally if you're using `locals()` you're doing it wrong, or at least try to see if what you're doing can be done without using `locals()` or `globals()`, also don't catch all exceptions unless that's really what you mean (has been said before) instead of: if description != "id": try: name, col_type, is_unique = description.split(".") except: name, col_type = description.split(".") #determine if unique if 'is_unique' in locals(): #double check if unique is "unique" and not "gravy" if is_unique == "unique": is_unique = True else: is_unique = False else: is_unique = False just do: is_unique = False if description != "id": try: name, col_type, is_unique = description.split(".") is_unique = is_unique == 'unique' except ValueError: name, col_type = description.split(".") Edit: updated advice with exception
From one lucid pythoner to the next -- good luck and stick with it!
How does it differ from [pyjs][]? [pyjs]: http://pyjs.org/
I agree with all, and to add another point against GAE, they've just introduced 2.7 support about a year ago. 3 isn't even on the radar yet. I don't have the link readily, but there was a talk on Youtube by Guido where he said Google would probably be the last company in the world to migrate to Python 3, since they have an enormous amount of legacy code. It makes sense to me. 
While I would agree that algorithms are a usual suspect in speed, how many people use Cython without adding types? I mean I guess it would obfuscate your code and make it slightly faster, but that is a slightly different situation. I do not claim to be an expert, but declaring types in cython is very easy. It is a superset of python, so it does not speak for the speed of python, but I feel like the point of it is to work toward C speeds (or wrap a C library in a different scenario). I guess I feel like defending cython because I am biased today. Tonight I was able to get a few thousand times increase in speed through cython. The functions were math heavy and I was also able to parallelize them nicely through openmp. It was a breeze to speed it up combining Numpy and Cython (total exaggeration, it took a few hours, but for an ametuer like me that is a breeze haha)
I think I see what you mean and I agree. I hope I didn't make it seem like I was saying Cython was the end-all solution. I was more asking why someone would even use Cython for speed without declaring types, or decide to use it for speed without planing on using type declarations.
As soon as my nephew's diapers come off and I'm sure he won't swallow it, I'm getting him a Raspberry Pi. He no longer calls me "cat"; phase two is to get him to say "Guido". The Zen of Python won't be far behind....
I've updated the post with a section on an identity between first() and next() - but first looks nicer. Use of next() in this way makes it a design pattern that maybe we should consider adding to itertools. I've also added identities between next() and any(); and next() and all(). 
Idea is great. But, I didn't find any tests there. Why the "bindings" needed ?
It's readable but I just don't like the 'list of lists' used to store the cell locations. It requires a nested loop to draw the grid which just feels hackish to me when I could've used a much simpler method. Keep in mind, I've only been using Python for a little over a week, so I plan on improving pyGrid as my Python skills improve.
And PyCon already had a [PyKids](http://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/1az25q/how_the_kids_stole_the_show_young_coders_tutorial/) of sorts, so the basic idea is there, the inner city kids are missing.
Silly MRAs, why can't you think about it a bit? With the recent edition being "exceptionally diverse" at a mere 20% of female presence, every pycon is pygentlemen, **that's the problem**.
Writing apps for GAE sucked more before AppScale, an open source implementation of Google App Engine, which you can run on EC2, for example: https://github.com/AppScale/appscale/wiki
I brought my daughter to PyCon and all they said to her was that she "looked really cute" and asked if she wanted any stickers or candy. Later on she asked me if that's all 'computer girls' talk about; clothes, stickers, and chocolate, because that's all she heard from the various 'feminist coders'. I told her that some do, yes. We were both disappoint. 
Dat Philly / South Jersey accent...
This is awesome, I'll try it out later, I wanted to create something but was too lazy to discover how to do a grid like this in pygame, so your project will help me out :D
Er. It does not work like PyPy, seems someone uses that as false advertising.
It doesn't seem to support any of the more useful builtins: list, set, dict etc
Great advice. I would also recommend trying out PyCharm which has a built-in PEP8 checking on the fly. It's commercial, but it's absolutely worth it.
Are you familiar with awk? http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/~dholland/computers/awk.html
You need to install Brew/home brew for OSX first. Then brew install python, then pip install PIL. Mae sure you have xcode installed before you start.
Do you look for something like [Brownie](http://pythonhosted.org/Brownie/)?
Could also use the compiler module, eliminates the need to print a function. import sys import compiler class Equation(object): def __init__(self, source): self.code = compiler.compile(source, '&lt;stdin&gt;', 'exec') self.scope = sys._getframe(1).f_globals def __call__(self, **kw): ns = dict(self.scope, **kw) exec self.code in ns if __name__ == "__main__": e = Equation("print 'Hello World'") e() e1 = Equation("print x+y+z**2") z = 3 e1(x=1,y=2) 
The only criterion you mention is "lowest price". In that case, AWS is probably your best bet. Heroku is nice, provides lots of infrastructure for you, but can get quite expensive. AWS is do-it-all-yourself, and very cost-effective. GAE also has a free tier which may be sufficient for your project, and is definitely a close second IMHO (provided your app fits the GAE model. I haven't used DotCloud, but it seems to be very similar to Heroku. In general, the tradeoff you're really making is how much ops you want to do, and how much you want to rely on pre-built components and frameworks. Don't forget though - unless your time is free, there is a cost to doing ops, scaling, system maintenance, etc, etc which are all done for you on the premium services.
I found a typo! &gt; Things to come &gt;**PyGame** is still a prototype